

                     THIS IS A SHAREWARE TRIAL PROJECT
                                 
         IT IS NOT "FREEWARE" WE NEED YOUR SUPPORT TO CONTINUE




                              100 WEST BY 53 NORTH

                                    by

                               Jim Prentice

          Copyright 1990, Jim Prentice, Brandon, Manitoba, CANADA





          North of 53. A magic phrase. Spoken, mumbled or thought
     inwardly by thousands of souls venturing northward. An
     imaginary line, shown only on maps and labelled 53 degrees.
     It's presence indicated to highway travellers by road side
     signs.
          A division of territory as distinct in the mind as any
     international border.
          If you have not been "North of 53", you have not been
     north!
          Travellers and writers, poets and pilots, have
     contributed to the lore of the north. The rigors of life in
     the bush are told in tales of man eating mosquitoes, of
     murderous hordes of black flies, of the lumps of flesh
     carried away by the giant bull dog flies.
          The stories of record breaking trout, walleye, and pike
     are legion. There are tales of sights and sounds heard deep
     in the spruce forests:
          The crashing of moose, tearing through brush and
     breaking down trees. The drumming of grouse. The incessant
     hum of insects. The cackling quackery of ducks feeding on
     quiet ponds and placid bays.
          Once heard, the intermittent song of the loon is never
     forgotten. It's voice the signature of authenticity of a
     northern scene.
          If the wildlife in the northern bush land seems
     different than found elsewhere, so is the life of man. It
     takes a special breed of person to live in the north. The
     farther one travels, the more this becomes apparent. The
     Southerner, whether on his first or fiftieth trip north of
     53, never really becomes aware of the implications of
     northern living.
          Generally, the owners of "cottages" on southern lakes
     have more amenities at hand for a weekend of "roughing it"
     than most northern dwellers have on a year round basis.
          The modern cabin on a lake shore near a large
     metropolitan center is equipped with electric service, a
     telephone, paved roads, natural gas pipelines, and cable
     television.
          Nearby are services that provide food, fuel, repairs,
     and entertainment. Drivein theaters and fast food chains
     abound. Waterfront businesses have docks built for those
     arriving by boat to do their shopping, laundry, or to
     transfer suitcases from the family car. The local merchants
     deliver goods to the cabin by road or by water.
     Entrepreneurs make a businesss of servicing and maintaining
     cabins during the owners absence in the off seasons.
          Most of these "cottages", whether on the lake shore, or
     located five well paved streets from the water, rival the
     homes of many city dwellers. These lake side communities,
     although seasonal, differ little from the urban living from
     which they offer escape.
          Look at an average northern community. Study and
     compare the standards with those of urban areas and their
     nearby lake side retreats.
          There are no local bus services. If the car doesn't
     start you either walk, or call a taxi. Yes, most areas do
     have a taxi service of one kind or another. Even if it's a
     ride in the back of some one's pick up truck.
          Mail delivery is unknown. A pleasant stroll in
     midsummer is contrasted by an ordeal in life threatening
     conditions during winter.
          House to house delivery of milk and bread is
     nonexistent. Perhaps newspapers are delivered, but it
     requires a family effort, especially in winter.
          Bus, rail and scheduled air services to nearby
     settlements is severely restricted, if available at all.
     Many small taxi companies exist because of the large fares
     collected in the transport of natives to and from the
     reserves.
          Although diminishing in recent years, the bushpilot and
     charter aircraft still play a large role in northern
     transportation.
          The pilots of these small aircraft learn to live with
     conditions that would keep their southern colleagues on the
     ground.
          In summer they fly float equipped aircraft. They are
     busy hauling trappers, fishermen, freight, fish, furs, and
     supplies to and from the reserves, fish camps, traplines,
     logging areas, and small settlements.
          In the fall, when the ice is too thin for skis, yet too
     thick for floats, they change the aircraft to wheel
     equipment. Changing to skis when ice conditions permit.
          Winter flying presents problems that most pilots never
     hear of. Temperatures exceeding 40 below zero, blowing snow,
     ice crystals, and whiteouts. All these challenge the pilot
     in their daily work. The preheating of engines to coax them
     to life. The problem of congealed oil in propeller pitch
     mechanisms, and fueling with super cooled gasoline are
     regular chores.
          The ski-equipped aircraft must be tied down with ropes
     that are frozen into holes in the four foot ice. The skis
     must be lifted or run onto boards or poles to prevent them
     freezing into the ice.
          Pilots and passengers must wear heavy arctic clothing
     as few aircraft have cabin heat systems capable of coping
     with the cold. Aircraft batteries are removed at the end of
     each day of flying to ensure maximum efficiency the next
     day. Wings and engines are covered to stop the ingress of
     snow and the build up of frost on the flight surfaces.
     Gasoline fueled blow-pots are often carried to provide
     engine preheat to ensure starting. The oil in these engines
     gets so thick at minus 40 to 50 degrees that the engine
     cannot be turned. This writer has done chin-ups on the
     propeller of a coldsoaked Cessna which flew the next day
     after preheating.
          The northern airports lack any degree of services in
     comparison to those farther south. Fuel is usually available
     if you can locate the operator. Some of the larger
     communities may have a pay telephone at the airstrip, but
     the normal procedure is to buzz the town on arrival. This
     lets the people know you are landing and usually someone
     will head out to the strip to meet you.
          Unless you are a regular customer, all transactions for
     fuel and oil are on a cash basis. Cheques are nearly useless
     in a village without a bank. Credit to a stranger is
     foolhardy.
          During the grip of winter, the snowmobile is the major
     mode of transport in all but the largest of settlements. In
     many places that do have roads in winter, vehicles are left
     running 24 hours a day. If allowed to get cold, it may take
     many hours of effort to restart balky engines.
          Most northern residents enjoy the winter months. The
     change  in seasons brings on a change in activities. The
     boats and motors are stored away with the lawnmowers and
     garden chairs. The snowmobiles are tuned up, ice-fishing
     shacks are towed onto lakes and rivers. The blades of gas-
     powered ice augers are sharpened. The fishermen flock to
     their favorite spots and drill holes through ice up to four
     feet thick.
          Whether in the comfort of a shack with a woodburning
     stove glowing in the center, or huddled on the ice in the
     lee of a snowmobile, they normally take a good catch.
     Walleye, trout, pike, tullibee and whitefish as well as
     perch, burbot, catfish and bass are plentiful. The most
     popular bait is minnows, some use sucker-belly, or net bags
     of trout eggs. Others use metal spoons or large bucktail
     flies, lead-headed jigging lures, or just snelled hooks. As
     in summer, the best bait is whatever the fish are taking at
     the time.
          Moose hunting is another favorite sport, especially in
     the colder weather when the moose are on the move for food
     and warmth. The hunter faces problems similar to the pilot
     with his equipment. The extreme temperatures require that
     his snowmachine be kept in top condition if it is to start
     after a day of hunting. Once started it must be dependable.
     A life and death situation could develop if the machine
     breaks down while 40 or 50 miles from home.
          Even his rifle requires special care. A bolt covered
     with heavy grease will freeze solid in the cold. The firing
     pin may not move when struck by the hammer. Many a moose and
     bear lived to face another day because a hunter's weapon
     failed to operate.
          Other outdoor activities include cross country skiing,
     snowmobiling, and racing dog teams. These sports are
     included in the many winter festivals held each year.
          As spring arrives, the winter equipment is stored away
     and once again the boats and motors are brought out. Wagers
     are made on the time and date of the break up of river ice.
     The snow blowers, shovels, and skidoo suits are replaced
     with lawn mowers, rakes, and bathing suits.
          The pussy willows blossom. The ducks and geese return
     from their winter feeding grounds in the southern U.S.A..
     The frogs begin to croak and the first battalions of
     mosquitoes are hatched.
          From the winter lows of 40 below zero, the mercury
     climbs upward. The summer highs reach the 90's, sometimes
     100 degrees. A fantastic differential of 140 degrees between
     seasons.
          Through the seasons, day to day life continues. The
     sport and commercial fishing, the trapping and hunting. The
     road building, home construction, and landscaping. The
     pilots fly passengers and freight. They fly patrols on
     hundreds of miles of hydro-electric transmission lines and
     forest fire patrols. At regular intervals they carry
     conservationists doing animal census. They transport tanks
     of baby fish to restock the lakes. The seriously ill or
     injured are taken to medical centers by MEDEVAC flights.
          Other flights carry fishermen, and tourists.
     Prospectors vie with geologists, botanists, biologists,
     entomologists, and surveyors. All use the aircraft to see,
     touch, smell, measure and record the wonders of the north.
          The opening day of each hunting or fishing season is
     heralded by the arrival of recreational vehicles of all
     types. Trailers and vans, motorhomes and 4X4's arrive daily.
     They carry or tow boats and motors, bicycles, motorcycles,
     and ATVs. The "first-timers" fill the private and provincial
     government campgrounds. The more experienced and
     adventuresome travel logging roads and bush trails to
             favorite lakes, rivers, and streams.
          In town, the streets and parking lots are crammed with
     vehicles and equipment.
          Gasoline, food, booze, and fishing equipment are sold
     in great quantities.
          The hotels are full. Reservations were made months in
     advance, some were made prior to leaving the year before.
          For a few short weeks, during the prime spring fishing
     period, every available camping spot is occupied.
          As the summer wears on, the sportsmen recede and
     tourists take their place. The cycle repeats annually.
          Each year a number of travellers arrive in privately
     owned aircraft. Piper Cub to Beechcraft. Taildragger to
     bizjet. Most have been here before, to some it is a new
     experience.
          To a southern pilot, a trip north can be unnerving.
     Accustomed to flying over a network of roads and railroad
     tracks, always in contact with an airport or navigation aid,
     they are seldom prepared for the realities of northern
     flight.
          Airports are hundreds of miles apart. In most cases
     there are no roads or railways for navigation. At lower
     altitudes, voice contact with an airport is an exception
     rather than the rule.
          Flight plans of course are mandatory. Map reading is
     difficult. There are so many lakes, many of them the same
     basic shape that a sharp eye must be kept on the map.
          For seaplanes, the ever present danger of logs, rocks,
     and reefs is amplified by the distance from civilization.
     Flights must be carefully planned around suitable refueling
     facilities.
          The pilot of a private seaplane is in his own element
     here. The pleasure of landing on a remote lake, its quiet
     green waters undisturbed by others, is indescribable.
              After securing the aircraft and setting up camp, the
     true beauty of the north can be enjoyed.
          Waters teeming with fish, are surrounded by wildlife of
     all types. The smells of wood smoke and coffee mingling with
     the sound of fresh fish sizzling in the frypan.
           The songs of bird life. The cry of the loon. The
     evening wail of coyotes and wolves. The whistle of wings as
     ducks, geese, ravens, hawks, and eagles travel down the
     shoreline. On the lakes are the wakes of passing beaver and
     muskrat. The occasional warning smack of a beaver's tail on
     the water as he senses danger.
          The varied hues of trees, evergreen and deciduous. The
     colors of windflowers. The taste of fresh wild strawberries,
     raspberries, and blueberries.
          The excitement of an evening sky dancing with a
     dazzling display as the Aurora Borealis appears. The
     "Northern Lights" are surrounded by stars, incredibly
     brilliant against the black, smog free heavens.
          Thoughts in the night.... Lying in your tent you hear
     rustling noises. A twig snaps. Mouse or rabbit? Moose or
     bear? Is the food secure? You visualize the food bundle,
     securely tied to a tree branch, high above the ground.
          The wind is rising, you can hear small waves breaking
     on the shore. Is the airplane alright? Should you go and
     check it?
          What will the fishing be like in the morning? Will you
     get another chance to land the big Walleye that you lost to
     day. Or a bigger one?
          A lone mosquito buzzes your ear. Somehow he has
     penetrated the netting of your tent.
          The cry of a loon is the last thing you hear. You sleep
     peacefully until the songs of early morning bird life
     announce the start of a new day.
          But for the constant buzz-sting-slap of insect warfare,
     you might be in heaven.
          Far to the south, your friends and neighbors are also
     facing a new day.
          Howling dogs. Screaming kids. Squealing tires. The wail
     of police and fire sirens. The reek of diesel fumes from
     passing trucks and busses. Telephones jangle and typewriters
     clatter. The work piles up.
           Dissatisfied customers grumble. The boss looms
     threateningly.
          They jostle in line for a bus, then for coffee, then
     for lunch. They fight traffic to get home.
          The neighbor's dog has left a deposit on the lawn. The
     children's toys are cluttering the driveway.
          They sit down to a TV dinner and discuss your crazy
     fishing trip.
          The day to day life in the north does have it's
     problems; if you happen to own a car for which there is no
     local dealer, you may have to order parts from hundreds of
     miles away and have them shipped in by bus or plane.
     Meanwhile the car sits. The same applies to appliances,
     tools, and so on.
          There may not be a TV repairman in town. You must send
     the set out for repairs, or, buy a new one. By mail order of
     course. Providing your community has a TV station to begin
     with.
          Most northern communities have only one radio station.
     The CBC. Some are augmented by local programming.
          Other services may be difficult to obtain. For example,
     a veterinarian may visit weekly, or monthly, or not at all.
     Medical facilities are usually present to some extent, but
     any serious illness or injury may require a MEDEVAC flight
     to a distant city.
          Fresh meat and produce become more of a problem in the
     more remote areas. If road or rail service exists the
     problem is not too acute. However, in many communities, the
     only access is by air. In this event the shipment of
     perishable commodities is dependant on space available on
     the aircraft. The subsequent prices reflect the added cost
     of the product.
          On the subject of costs, heating a home with propane
     may be five to seven times the cost of natural gas as in
     southern homes. Food, gasoline, clothing, and appliances,
     are considerably more expensive in the north. Of course the
     more remote the location the higher the price.
          On a trip into the high arctic a few years ago the
     prices ran like this:

          Hotel bed $100.00 per night,  per man

          Breakfast (2 eggs, 2 toast,
            2 bacon, and 2 coffee)
            $12.00

          Avgas $7.00 per gallon

          But then, when you are 250 miles north of the arctic
     circle, you expect to pay higher prices.
          Why then, do people live in the north?
          For the natives it is a matter of ancestry. For many
     whites it is also ancestry. To some, they were born there.
     Their parents having moved north for employment reasons.
          Some are transients, following construction jobs and
     other seasonal employment. Others, working for large
     corporations or government, are transferred north as a job
     requirement.
          Life in the north is definitely different. A person
     accustomed to life in a large city may  not endure the
     rigors involved. They give it up and move south.
          Many people, such as myself, move north for an extended
     period. In our case it was 10 years. We adapted to the way
     of life. We enjoyed the hunting and fishing.
          Owning our own aircraft, we were able to travel more
     independently than our neighbors. We enjoyed all the great
     outdoors had to offer. We learned to adjust to the lack of
     night life, and other amenities.
          When 10 years had passed, and our children were adults,
     we took stock of our situation.
          We were stuck in a rut. The same rut that most of the
     townspeople were in. Our lives centered around hunting,
     fishing, the Post Office, and the TV set.
          We decided it was a case of moving now, or possibly
     remaining in the north for the rest of our lives.

          We left in February of 1984!

          We miss the delicious fresh fish from cold clear lakes.
     We miss the taste of thick moose steaks, moosemeat sausages,
     fresh smoked lake trout, and pancakes with fresh, wild
     blueberries. We miss the freedom afforded by a short flight
     to a secluded lake shore.
          The fishing and hunting within 10 miles of our northern
     home was superb. The friendship and camaraderie of our
     neighbors was great.
          We are happy to have had the opportunity to experience
     northern life. But, as we approached the midpoint of our
     lives, we wanted to return to civilization. To pick up where
     we had left off. To enjoy the supermarkets, and shopping
     malls, the fancy restaurants, and gourmet foods. We wanted
     to be closer to the center of things, a few hours drive from
     a major city rather than an all day trip.
          We returned to old friends, and new neighbors. New
     stores, and home mail delivery. Lower prices. Broader
     choices. More to do and see. More TV channels. Several radio
     stations, and newspapers.
          We can drive east or west besides north and south. We
     can dance to live music and eat in restaurants of many
     nationalities.

          In short, we are back to civilization

                              THE END



























                                    214
                                    
                                    :.:.:.:.:.:.:.:.:.:.:.:.:.:.:.:.:.:.:.:.:.:.:.:.:.:.:.:.:.:.:
				             -----=====Earth's Dreamlands=====-----
				               (313)558-5024 {14.4} (313)558-5517
				                  A BBS for text file junkies
				                  RPGNet GM File Archive Site
				    .:.:.:.:.:.:.:.:.:.:.:.:.:.:.:.:.:.:.:.:.:.:.:.:.:.:.:.:.:.:.
				    
				                The Adveniure of the Three Gables
				    
				      I don't think that any of my adventures with Mr. Sherlock
				    Holmes opened quite so abruptly, or so dramatically, as that
				    which I associate with The Three Gables. I had not seen Holmes
				    for some days and had no idea of the new channel into which his
				    activities had been directed. He was in a chatty mood that
				    morning, however, and had just settled me into the well-worn
				    low armchair on one side of the fire, while he had curled down
				    with his pipe in his mouth upon the opposite chair, when our
				    visitor arrived. If I had said that a mad bull had arrived it would
				    give a clearer impression of what occurred.
				      The door had flown open and a huge negro had burst into the
				    room. He would have been a comic figure if he had not been
				    terrific, for he was dressed in a very loud gray check suit with a
				    flowing salmon-coloured tie. His broad face and flattened nose
				    were thrust forward, as his sullen dark eyes, with a smouldering
				    gleam of malice in them, turned from one of us to the other.
				      "Which of you gen'l'men is Masser Holmes?" he asked.
				      Holmes raised his pipe with a languid smile.
				      "Oh! it's you, is it?" said our visitor, coming with an un-
				    pleasant, stealthy step round the angle of the table. "See here,
				    Masser Holmes, you keep your hands out of other folks' busi-
				    ness. Leave folks to manage their own affairs. Got that, Masser
				    Holmes?"
				      "Keep on talking," said Holmes. "It's fine."
				      "Oh! it's fine, is it?" growled the savage. "It won't be so
				    damn fine if I have to trim you up a bit. I've handled your kind
				    before now, and they didn't look fine when I was through with
				    them. Look at that, Masser Holmes!"
				      He swung a huge knotted lump of a fist under my friend's
				    nose. Holmes examined it closely with an air of great interest.
				      "Were you born so?" he asked. "Or did it come by degrees?"
				      It may have been the icy coolness of my friend, or it may have
				    been the slight clatter which I made as I picked up the poker. In
				    any case, our visitor's manner became less flamboyant.
				      "Well, I've given you fair warnin'," said he. "I've a friend
				    that's interested out Harrow way -- you know what I'm meaning --
				    and he don't intend to have no buttin' in by you. Got that? You
				    ain't the law, and I ain't the law either, and if you come in I'll
				    be on hand also. Don't you forget it."
				      "I've wanted to meet you for some time," said Holmes. "I
				    won't ask you to sit down, for I don't like the smell of you, but
				    aren't you Steve Dixie, the bruiser?"
				      "That's my name, Masser Holmes, and you'll get put through
				    it for sure if you give me any lip."
				      "It is certainly the last thing you need," said Holmes, staring
				    at our visitor's hideous mouth. "But it was the killing of young
				    Perkins outside the Holborn -- Bar What! you're not going?"
				      The negro had sprung back, and his face was leaden. "I won't
				    listen to no such talk," said he. "What have I to do with this 'ere
				    Perkins, Masser Holmes? I was trainin' at the Bull Ring in
				    Birmingham when this boy done gone get into trouble."
				      "Yes, you'll tell the magistrate about it, Steve," said Holmes.
				    "I've been watching you and Barney Stockdale --"
				      "So help me the Lord! Masser Holmes --"
				      "That's enough. Get out of it. I'll pick you up when I want
				    you."
				      "Good-mornin', Masser Holmes. I hope there ain't no hard
				    feelin's about this 'ere visit?"
				      "There will be unless you tell me who sent you."
				      "Why, there ain't no secret about that, Masser Holmes. It was
				    that same gen'l'man that you have just done gone mention."
				      "And who set him on to it?"
				      "S'elp me. I don't know, Masser Holmes. He just say,
				    'Steve, you go see Mr. Holmes, and tell him his life ain't
				    safe if he go down Harrow way.' That's the whole truth."
				    Without waiting for any further questioning, our visitor bolted
				    out of the room almost as precipitately as he had entered.
				    Holmes knocked out the ashes of his pipe with a quiet chuckle.
				      "I am glad you were not forced to break his woolly head,
				    Watson. I observed your manoeuvres with the poker. But he is
				    really rather a harmless fellow, a great muscular, foolish, blus-
				    tering baby, and easily cowed, as you have seen. He is one
				    of the Spencer John gang and has taken part in some dirty
				    work of late which I may clear up when I have time. His
				    immediate principal, Barney, is a more astute person. They
				    specialize in assaults, intimidation, and the like. What I want
				    to know is, who is at the back of them on this panicular
				    occasion?"
				      "But why do they want to intimidate you?"
				      "It is this Harrow Weald case. It decides me to look into the
				    matter, for if it is worth anyone's while to take so much trouble,
				    there must be something in it."
				      "But what is it?"
				      "I was going to tell you when we had this comic interlude.
				    Here is Mrs. Maberley's note. If you care to come with me we
				    will wire her and go out at once."
				    
				         DEAR MR. SHERLOCK HOLMES [I read]:
				           I have had a succession of strange incidents occur to me
				         in connection with this house, and I should much value your
				         advice. You would find me at home any time to-morrow.
				         The house is within a short walk of the Weald Station. I
				         believe that my late husband, Mortimer Maberley, was one
				         of your early clients.
				                                                Yours faithfully,
				                                                   MARY MABERLEY.
				    
				      The address was "The Three Gables, Harrow Weald."
				      "So that's that!" said Holmes. "And now, if you can spare
				    the time, Watson, we will get upon our way."
				      A short railway journey, and a shorter drive, brought us to the
				    house, a brick and timber villa, standing in its own acre of
				    undeveloped grassland. Three small projections above. the upper
				    windows made a feeble attempt to justify its name. Behind was a
				    grove of melancholy, half-grown pines, and the whole aspect of
				    the place was poor and depressing. None the less, we found the
				    house to be well furnished, and the lady who received us was a
				    most engaging elderly person, who bore every mark of refine-
				    ment and culture.
				      "I remember your husband well, madam," said Holmes,
				    "though it is some years since he used my services in some
				    trifling matter."
				      "Probably you would be more familiar with the name of my
				    son Douglas."
				      Holmes looked at her with great interest.
				      "Dear me! Are you the mother of Douglas Maberley? I knew
				    him slightly. But of course all London knew him. What a
				    magnificent creature he was! Where is he now?"
				      "Dead, Mr. Holmes, dead! He was attache at Rome, and he
				    died there of pneumonia last month."
				      "I am sorry. One could not connect death with such a man. I
				    have never known anyone so vitally alive. He lived intensely --
				    every fibre of him!"
				      "Too intensely, Mr. Holmes. That was the ruin of him. You
				    remember him as he was -- debonair and splendid. You did not
				    see the moody, morose, brooding creature into which he devel-
				    oped. His heart was broken. In a single month I seemed to see
				    my gallant boy turn into a worn-out cynical man."
				      "A love affair -- a woman?"
				      "Or a fiend. Well, it was not to talk of my poor lad that I
				    asked you to come, Mr. Holmes."
				      "Dr. Watson and I are at your service."
				      "There have been some very strange happenings. I have been
				    in this house more than a year now, and as I wished to lead a
				    retired life I have seen little of my neighbours. Three days ago I
				    had a call from a man who said that he was a house agent. He
				    said that this house would exactly suit a client of his, and that if I
				    would part with it money would be no object. It seemed to me
				    very strange as there are several empty houses on the market
				    which appear to be equally eligible, but naturally I was interested
				    in what he said. I therefore named a price which was five
				    hundred pounds more than I gave. He at once closed with the
				    offer, but added that his client desired to buy the furniture as
				    well and would I put a price upon it. Some of this furniture is
				    from my old home, and it is, as you see, very good, so that I
				    named a good round sum. To this also he at once agreed. I had
				    always wanted to travel, and the bargain was so good a one that
				    it really seemed that I should be my own mistress for the rest of
				    my life.
				      "Yesterday the man arrived with the agreement all drawn out.
				    Luckily I showed it to Mr. Sutro, my lawyer, who lives in
				    Harrow. He said to me, 'This is a very strange document. Are
				    you aware that if you sign it you could not legally take anything
				    out of the house -- not even your own private possessions?' When
				    the man came again in the evening I pointed this out, and I said
				    that I meant only to sell the furniture.
				      " 'No, no, everything,' said he.
				      " 'But my clothes? My jewels?'
				      " 'Well, well, some concession might be made for your per-
				    sonal effects. But nothing shall go out of the house unchecked.
				    My client is a very liberal man, but he has his fads and his own
				    way of doing things. It is everything or nothing with him.'
				      " 'Then it must be nothing,' said I. And there the matter was
				    left, but the whole thing seemed to me to be so unusual that I
				    thought --"
				      Here we had a very extraordinary interruption.
				      Holmes raised his hand for silence. Then he strode across the
				    room, flung open the door, and dragged in a great gaunt woman
				    whom he had seized by the shoulder. She entered with ungainly
				    struggle like some huge awkward chicken, torn, squawking, out
				    of its coop.
				      "Leave me alone! What are you a-doin' of?" she screeched.
				      "Why, Susan, what is this?"
				      "Well, ma'am, I was comin' in to ask if the visitors was
				    stayin' for lunch when this man jumped out at me."
				      "I have been listening to her for the last five minutes, but did
				    not wish to interrupt your most interesting narrative. Just a little
				    wheezy, Susan, are you not? You breathe too heavily for that
				    kind of work."
				      Susan turned a sulky but amazed face upon her captor. "Who
				    be you, anyhow, and what right have you a-pullin' me about like
				    this?"
				      "It was merely that I wished to ask a question in your
				    presence. Did you, Mrs. Maberley, mention to anyone that you
				    were going to write to me and consult me?"
				      "No, Mr. Holmes, I did not."
				      "Who posted your letter?"
				      "Susan did."
				      "Exactly. Now, Susan, to whom was it that you wrote or sent
				    a message to say that your mistress was asking advice from
				    me?"
				      "It's a lie. I sent no message."
				      "Now, Susan, wheezy people may not live long, you know.
				    It's a wicked thing to tell fibs. Whom did you tell?"
				      "Susan!" cried her mistress, "I believe you are a bad, treach-
				    erous woman. I remember now that I saw you speaking to
				    someone over the hedge."
				      "That was my own business," said the woman sullenly.
				      "Suppose I tell you that it was Barney Stockdale to whom you
				    spoke?" said Holmes.
				      "Well, if you know, what do you want to ask for?"
				      "I was not sure, but I know now. Well now, Susan, it will be
				    worth ten pounds to you if you will tell me who is at the back of
				    Barney."
				      "Someone that could lay down a thousand pounds for every
				    ten you have in the world."
				      "So, a rich man? No; you smiled -- a rich woman. Now we
				    have got so far, you may as well give the name and earn the
				    tenner."
				      "I'll see you in hell first."
				      "Oh, Susan! Language!"
				      "I am clearing out of here. I've had enough of you all. I'll
				    send for my box to-morrow." She flounced for the door.
				      "Good-bye, Susan. Paregoric is the stuff.... Now," he
				    continued, turning suddenly from lively to severe when the door
				    had closed behind the flushed and angry woman, "this gang
				    means business. Look how close they play the game. Your letter
				    to me had the 10 P.M. postmark. And yet Susan passes the word
				    to Barney. Barney has time to go to his employer and get
				    instructions; he or she -- I incline to the latter from Susan's grin
				    when she thought I had blundered -- forms a plan. Black Steve is
				    called in, and I am warned off by eleven o'clock next morning.
				    That's quick work, you know."
				      "But what do they want?"
				      "Yes, that's the question. Who had the house before you?"
				      "A retired sea captain called Ferguson."
				      "Anything remarkable about him?"
				      "Not that ever I heard of."
				      "I was wondering whether he could have buried something.
				    Of course, when people bury treasure nowadays they do it in the
				    Post-Office bank. But there are always some lunatics about. It
				    would be a dull world without them. At first I thought of some
				    buried valuable. But why, in that case, should they want your
				    furniture? You don't happen to have a Raphael or a first folio
				    Shakespeare without knowing it?"
				      "No, I don't think I have anything rarer than a Crown Derby
				    tea-set."
				      "That would hardly justify all this mystery. Besides, why
				    should they not openly state what they want? If they covet your
				    tea-set, they can surely offer a price for it without buying you
				    out, lock, stock, and barrel. No, as I read it, there is something
				    which you do not know that you have, and which you would not
				    give up if you did know."
				      "That is how I read it," said I.
				      "Dr. Watson agrees, so that settles it."
				      "Well, Mr. Holmes, what can it be?"
				      "Let us see whether by this purely mental analysis we can get
				    it to a finer point. You have been in this house a year."
				      "Nearly two."
				      "All the better. During this long period no one wants anything
				    from you. Now suddenly within three or four days you have
				    urgent demands. What would you gather from that?"
				      "It can only mean," said I, "that the object, whatever it may
				    be, has only just come into the house."
				      "Settled once again," said Holmes. "Now, Mrs. Maberley
				    has any object just arrived?"
				      "No, I have bought nothing new this year."
				      "Indeed! That is very remarkable. Well, I think we had best
				    let matters develop a little further until we have clearer data. Is
				    that lawyer of yours a capable man?"
				      "Mr. Sutro is most capable."
				      "Have you another maid, or was the fair Susan, who has just
				    banged your front door alone?"
				      "I have a young girl."
				      "Try and get Sutro to spend a night or two in the house. You
				    might possibly want protection."
				      "Against whom?"
				      "Who knows? The matter is certainly obscure. If I can't find
				    what they are after, I must approach the matter from the other
				    end and try to get at the principal. Did this house-agent man give
				    any address?"
				      "Simply his card and occupation. Haines-Johnson, Auctioneer
				    and Valuer."
				      "I don't think we shall find him in the directory. Honest
				    business men don't conceal their place of business. Well, you
				    will let me know any fresh development. I have taken up your
				    case, and you may rely upon it that I shall see it through."
				      As we passed through the hall Holmes's eyes, which missed
				    nothing, lighted upon several trunks and cases which were piled
				    in a corner. The labels shone out upon them.
				      " 'Milano.' 'Lucerne.' These are from Italy."
				      "They are poor Douglas's things."
				      "You have not unpacked them? How long have you had
				    them?"
				      "They arrived last week."
				      "But you said -- why, surely this might be the missing link.
				    How do we know that there is not something of value there?"
				      "There could not possibly be, Mr. Holmes. Poor Douglas had
				    only his pay and a small annuity. What could he have of value?"
				      Holmes was lost in thought.
				      "Delay no longer, Mrs. Maberley," he said at last. "Have
				    these things taken upstairs to your bedroom. Examine them as
				    soon as possible and see what they cohtain. I will come to-
				    morrow and hear your report."
				      It was quite evident that The Three Gables was under very
				    close surveillance, for as we came round the high hedge at the
				    end of the lane there was the negro prize-fighter standing in the
				    shadow. We came on him quite suddenly, and a grim and
				    menacing figure he looked in that lonely place. Holmes clapped
				    his hand to his pocket.
				      "Lookin' for your gun, Masser Holmes?"
				      "No, for my scent-bottle, Steve."
				      "You are funny, Masser Holmes, ain't you?"
				      "It won't be funny for you, Steve, if I get after you. I gave
				    you fair warning this morning."
				      "Well, Masser Holmes, I done gone think over what you said,
				    and I don't want no more talk about that affair of Masser
				    Perkins. S'pose I can help you, Masser Holmes, I will."
				      "Well, then, tell me who is behind you on this job."
				      "So help me the Lord! Masser Holmes, I told you the truth
				    before. I don't know. My boss Barney gives me orders and that's
				    all."
				      "Well, just bear in mind, Steve, that the lady in that house,
				    and everything under that roof, is under my protection. Don't
				    forget it."
				      "All right, Masser Holmes. I'll remember."
				      "I've got him thoroughly frightened for his own skin, Wat-
				    son," Holmes remarked as we walked on. "I think he would
				    double-cross his employer if he knew who he was. It was lucky I
				    had some knowledge of the Spencer John crowd, and that Steve
				    was one of them. Now, Watson, this is a case for Langdale Pike,
				    and I am going to see him now. When I get back I may be
				    clearer in the matter."
				      I saw no more of Holmes during the day, but I could well
				    imagine how he spent it, for Langdale Pike was his human
				    book of reference upon all matters of social scandal. This
				    strange, languid creature spent his waking hours in the bow
				    window of a St. James's Street club and was the receiving-
				    station as well as the transmitter for all the gossip of the
				    metropolis. He made, it was said, a four-figure income by
				    the paragraphs which he contributed every week to the gar-
				    bage papers which cater to an inquisitive public. If ever, far
				    down in the turbid depths of London life, there was some
				    strange swirl or eddy, it was marked with automatic exact-
				    ness by this human dial upon the surface. Holmes discreetly
				    helped Langdale to knowledge, and on occasion was helped in
				    turn.
				      When I met my friend in his room early next morning, I was
				    conscious from his bearing that all was well, but none the less a
				    most unpleasant surprise was awaiting us. It took the shape of
				    the following telegram.
				    
				           Please come out at once. Client's house burgled in the
				         night. Police in possession.
				                               SUTRO.
				      Holmes whistled. "The drama has come to a crisis, and
				    quicker than I had expected. There is a great driving-power at
				    the back of this business, Watson, which does not surprise me
				    after what I have heard. This Sutro, of course, is her lawyer. I
				    made a mistake, I fear, in not asking you to spend the night on
				    guard. This fellow has clearly proved a broken reed. Well, there
				    is nothing for it but another journey to Harrow Weald."
				      We found The Three Gables a very different establishment to
				    the orderly household of the previous day. A small group of
				    idlers had assembled at the garden gate, while a couple of
				    constables were examining the windows and the geranium beds.
				    Within we met a gray old gentleman, who introduced himself as
				    the lawyer together with a bustling, rubicund inspector, who
				    greeted Hoimes as an old friend.
				      "Well, Mr. Holmes, no chance for you in this case, I'm
				    afraid. Just a common, ordinary burglary, and well within the
				    capacity of the poor old police. No experts need apply."
				      "I am sure the case is in very good hands," said Holmes.
				    "Merely a common burglary, you say?"
				      "Quite so. We know pretty well who the men are and where
				    to find them. It is that gang of Barney Stockdale, with the big
				    nigger in it -- they've been seen about here."
				      "Excellent! What did they get?"
				      "Well, they don't seem to have got much. Mrs. Maberley was
				    chloroformed and the house was -- Ah! here is the lady herself."
				      Our friend of yesterday, looking very pale and ill, had entered
				    the room, leaning upon a little maidservant.
				      "You gave me good advice, Mr. Holmes," said she, smiling
				    ruefully. "Alas, I did not take it! I did not wish to trouble Mr.
				    Sutro, and so I was unprotected."
				      "I only heard of it this morning," the lawyer explained.
				      "Mr. Holmes advised me to have some friend in the house. I
				    neglected his advice, and I have paid for it."
				      "You look wretchedly ill," said Holmes. "Perhaps you are
				    hardly equal to telling me what occurred."
				      "It is all here," said the inspector, tapping a bulky notebook.
				      "Still, if the lady is not too exhausted --"
				      "There is really so little to tell. I have no doubt that wicked
				    Susan had planned an entrance for them. They must have known
				    the house to an inch. I was conscious for a moment of the
				    chloroform rag which was thrust over my mouth, but I have no
				    notion how long I may have been senseless. When I woke, one
				    man was at the bedside and another was rising with a bundle in
				    his hand from among my son's baggage, which was partially
				    opened and littered over the floor. Before he could get away I
				    sprang up and seized him."
				      "You took a big risk," said the inspector.
				      "I clung to him, but he shook me off, and the other may have
				    struck me, for I can remember no more. Mary the maid heard the
				    noise and began screaming out of the window. That brought the
				    police, but the rascals had got away."
				      "What did they take?"
				      "Well, I don't think there is anything of value missing. I am
				    sure there was nothing in my son's trunks."
				      "Did the men leave no clue?"
				      "There was one sheet of paper which I may have torn from
				    the man that I grasped. It was lying all crumpled on the floor. It
				    is in my son's handwriting."
				      "Which means that it is not of much use," said the inspector.
				    "Now if it had been in the burglar's --"
				      "Exactly," said Holmes. "What rugged common sense! None
				    the less, I should be curious to see it."
				      The inspector drew a folded sheet of foolscap from his
				    pocketbook.
				      "I never pass anything, however trifling," said he with some
				    pomposity. "That is my advice to you, Mr. Holmes. In twenty-
				    five years' experience I have learned my lesson. There is always
				    the chance of finger-marks or something."
				      Holmes inspected the sheet of paper.
				      "What do you make of it, Inspector?"
				      "Seems to be the end of some queer novel, so far as I can
				    see."
				      "It may certainly prove to be the end of a queer tale," said
				    Holmes. "You have noticed the number on the top of the page.
				    It is two hundred and forty-five. Where are the odd two hundred
				    and forty-four pages?"
				      "Well, I suppose the burglars got those. Much good may it do
				    them!"
				      "It seems a queer thing to break into a house in order to steal
				    such papers as that. Does it suggest anything to you, Inspector?"
				      "Yes, sir, it suggests that in their hurry the rascals just
				    grabbed at what came first to hand. I wish them joy of what they
				    got."
				      "Why should they go to my son's things?" asked Mrs.
				    Maberley.
				      "Well, they found nothing valuable downstairs, so they tried
				    their luck upstairs. That is how I read it. What do you make of
				    it, Mr. Holmes?"
				      "I must think it over, Inspector. Come to the window, Wat-
				    son." Then, as we stood together, he read over the fragment of
				    paper. It began in the middle of a sentence and ran like this:
				    
				           ". . . face bled considerably from the cuts and blows,
				         but it was nothing to the bleeding of his heart as he saw that
				         lovely face, the face for which he had been prepared to
				         sacrifice his very life, looking out at his agony and humilia-
				         tion. She smiled -- yes, by Heaven! she smiled, like the
				         heartless fiend she was, as he looked up at her. It was at
				         that moment that love died and hate was born. Man must
				         live for something. If it is not for your embrace, my lady,
				         then it shall surely be for your undoing and my complete
				         revenge."
				    
				      "Queer grammar!" said Holmes with a smile as he handed the
				    paper back to the inspector. "Did you notice how the 'he'
				    suddenly changed to 'my'? The writer was so carried away by
				    his own story that he imagined himself at the supreme moment to
				    be the hero."
				      "It seemed mighty poor stuff," said the inspector as he re-
				    placed it in his book. "What! are you off, Mr. Holmes?"
				      "I don't think there is anything more for me to do now that
				    the case is in such capable hands. By the way, Mrs. Maberley,
				    did you say you wished to travel?"
				      "It has always been my dream, Mr. Holmes."
				      "Where would you like to go -- Cairo, Madeira, the Riviera?"
				      "Oh if I had the money I would go round the world."
				      "Quite so. Round the world. Well, good-morning. I may drop
				    you a line in the evening." As we passed the window I caught a
				    glimpse of the inspector's smile and shake of the head. "These
				    clever fellows have always a touch of madness." That was what
				    I read in the inspector's smile.
				      "Now, Watson, we are at the last lap of our little journey,"
				    said Holmes when we were back in the roar of central London
				    once more. "I think we had best clear the matter up at once, and
				    it would be well that you should come with me, for it is safer to
				    have a witness when you are dealing with such a lady as Isadora
				    Klein."
				      We had taken a cab and were speeding to some address in
				    Grosvenor Square. Holmes had been sunk in thought, but he
				    roused himself suddenly.
				      "By the way, Watson, I suppose you see it all clearly?"
				      "No, I can't say that I do. I only gather that we are going to
				    see the lady who is behind all this mischief."
				      "Exactly! But does the name Isadora Klein convey nothing to
				    you? She was, of course, the celebrated beauty. There was never
				    a woman to touch her. She is pure Spanish, the real blood of the
				    masterfui Conquistadors, and her people have been leaders in
				    Pernambuco for generations. She married the aged German sugar
				    king, Klein, and presently found herself the richest as well as the
				    most lovely widow upon earth. Then there was an interval of
				    adventure when she pleased her own tastes. She had several
				    lovers, and Douglas Maberley, one of the most striking men in
				    London, was one of them. It was by all accounts more than an
				    adventure with him. He was not a society butterfly but a strong,
				    proud man who gave and expected all. But she is the 'belle dame
				    sans merci' of fiction. When her caprice is satisfied the matter is
				    ended, and if the other party in the matter can't take her word
				    for it she knows how to bring it home to him."
				      "Then that was his own story --"
				      "Ah! you are piecing it together now. I hear that she is about
				    to marry the young Duke of Lomond, who might almost be her
				    son. His Grace's ma might overlook the age, but a big scandal
				    would be a different matter, so it is imperative -- Ah! here we
				    are."
				      It was one of the finest corner-houses of the West End. A
				    machine-like footman took up our cards and returned with word
				    that the lady was not at home. "Then we shall wait until she is,"
				    said Holmes cheerfully.
				      The machine broke down.
				      "Not at home means not at home to you," said the footman.
				      "Good," Holmes answered. "That means that we shall not
				    have to wait. Kindly give this note to your mistress."
				      He scribbled three or four words upon a sheet of his notebook,
				    folded it, and handed it to the man.
				      "What did you say, Holmes?" I asked.
				      "I simply wrote: 'Shall it be the police, then?' I think that
				    should pass us in."
				      It did -- with amazing celerity. A minute later we were in an
				    Arabian Nights drawing-room, vast and wonderful, in a half
				    gloom, picked out with an occasional pink electric light. The
				    lady had come, I felt, to that time of life when even the proudest
				    beauty finds the half light more welcome. She rose from a settee
				    as we entered: tall, queenly, a perfect figure, a lovely mask-like
				    face, with two wonderful Spanish eyes which looked murder at
				    us both.
				      "What is this intrusion -- and this insulting message?" she
				    asked, holding up the slip of paper.
				      "I need not explain, madame. I have too much respect for
				    your intelligence to do so -- though I confess that intelligence has
				    been surprisingly at fault of late."
				      "How so, sir?"
				      "By supposing that your hired bullies could frighten me from
				    my work. Surely no man would take up my profession if it were
				    not that danger attracts him. It was you, then, who forced me to
				    examine the case of young Maberley."
				      "I have no idea what you are talking about. What have I to do
				    with hired bullies?"
				      Holmes turned away wearily.
				      "Yes, I have underrated your intelligence. Well, good-after-
				    noon!"
				      "Stop! Where are you going?"
				      "To Scotland Yard."
				      We had not got halfway to the door before she had overtaken
				    us and was holding his arm. She had turned in a moment from
				    steel to velvet.
				      "Come and sit down, gentlemen. Let us talk this matter over.
				    I feel that I may be frank with you, Mr. Holmes. You have the
				    feelings of a gentleman. How quick a woman's instinct is to find
				    it out. I will treat you as a friend."
				      "I cannot promise to reciprocate, madame. I am not the law,
				    but I represent justice so far as my feeble powers go. I am ready
				    to listen, and then I will tell you how I will act."
				      "No doubt it was foolish of me to threaten a brave man like
				    yourself."
				      "What was really foolish, madame, is that you have placed
				    yourself in the power of a band of rascals who may blackmail or
				    give you away."
				      "No, no! I am not so simple. Since I have promised to be
				    frank, I may say that no one, save Barney Stockdale and Susan,
				    his wife, have the least idea who their employer is. As to them,
				    well, it is not the first --" She smiled and nodded with a
				    charming coquettish intimacy.
				      "l see. You've tested them before."
				      "They are good hounds who run silent."
				      "Such hounds have a way sooner or later of biting the hand
				    that feeds them. They will be arrested for this burglary. The
				    police are already after them."
				      "They will take what comes to them. That is what they are
				    paid for. I shall not appear in the matter."
				      "Unless I bring you into it."
				      "No, no, you would not. You are a gentleman. It is a wom-
				    an's secret."
				      "In the first place, you must give back this manuscript."
				      She broke into a ripple of laughter and walked to the fireplace.
				    There was a calcined mass which she broke up with the poker.
				    "Shall I give this back?" she asked. So roguish and exquisite
				    did she look as she stood before us with a challenging smile that
				    I felt of all Holmes's criminals this was the one whom he would
				    find it hardest to face. However, he was immune from sentiment.
				      "That seals your fate," he said coldly. "You are very prompt
				    in your actions, madame, but you have overdone it on this
				    occasion."
				      She threw the poker down with a clatter.
				      "How hard you are!" she cried. "May I tell you the whole
				    story?"
				      "I fancy I could tell it to you."
				      "But you must look at it with my eyes, Mr. Holmes. You
				    must realize it from the point of view of a woman who sees all
				    her life's ambition about to be ruined at the last moment. Is such
				    a woman to be blamed if she protects herself?"
				      "The original sin was yours."
				      "Yes, yes! I admit it. He was a dear boy, Douglas, but it so
				    chanced that he could not fit into my plans. He wanted marriage --
				    marriage, Mr. Holmes -- with a penniless commoner. Nothing
				    less would serve him. Then he became pertinacious. Because I
				    had given he seemed to think that I still must give, and to him
				    only. It was intolerable. At last I had to make him realize it."
				      "By hiring ruffians to beat him under your own window."
				      "You do indeed seem to know everything. Well, it is true.
				    Barney and the boys drove him away, and were, I admit, a little
				    rough in doing so. But what did he do then? Could I have
				    believed that a gentleman would do such an act? He wrote a
				    book in which he described his own story. I, of course, was the
				    wolf; he the lamb. It was all there, under different names, of
				    course; but who in all London would have failed to recognize it?
				    What do you say to that, Mr. Holmes?"
				      "Well, he was within his rights."
				      "It was as if the air of Italy had got into his blood and brought
				    with it the old cruel Italian spirit. He wrote to me and sent me a
				    copy of his book that I might have the torture of anticipation.
				    There were two copies, he said -- one for me, one for his
				    publisher."
				      "How did you know the publisher's had not reached him?"
				      "I knew who his publisher was. It is not his only novel, you
				    know. I found out that he had not heard from Italy. Then came
				    Douglas's sudden death. So long as that other manuscript was in
				    the world there was no safety for me. Of course, it must be
				    among his effects, and these would be returned to his mother. I
				    set the gang at work. One of them got into the house as servant.
				    I wanted to do the thing honestly. I really and truly did. I was
				    ready to buy the house and everything in it. I offered any price
				    she cared to ask. I only tried the other way when everything else
				    had failed. Now, Mr. Holmes, granting that I was too hard on
				    Douglas -- and, God knows, I am sorry for it! -- what else could I
				    do with my whole future at stake?"
				      Sherlock Holmes shrugged his shoulders.
				      "Well, well," said he, "I suppose I shall have to compound a
				    felony as usual. How much does it cost to go round the world in
				    first-class style?"
				      The lady stared in amazement.
				      "Could it be done on five thousand pounds?"
				      "Well, I should think so, indeed!"
				      "Very good. I think you will sign me a check for that, and I
				    will see that it comes to Mrs. Maberley. You owe her a little
				    change of air. Meantime, lady" -- he wagged a cautionary
				    forefinger -- "have a care! Have a care! You can't play with
				    edged tools forever without cutting those dainty hands."

                       Four Moons of Death

        DING DONG! The melancholy tintinabulation of the iron bells echoed
in the golden town of Arno. The shuffling of feet filing out of a granite
cathedral and the murmuring voices of paupers dominated all the sound.
Residing peacefully at it's zenith in it's aquamarine abode was the ocher
sun.
        A slight breeze whipped up some dead leaves from the tan soil
revealing some rustling. Slender and have brown hair, a man dressed in a
white robe with some golden lace entered Al's Pub.
        As he entered the bar, tattooed, bearded, deep-voiced men sat at
tables, discussing about their adventures and their treasures while
slurping various alcoholic beverages.
        Greetings came from every person as the Arch Bishop sauntered
towards an empty table. He received all sorts of messages like :
"Good afternoon Fleric. How are thee today? I absolutely believe in all
thy sermons."
        Al paced up to the waxed oak table as Fleric stood his wooden
cudgel next to his worn-out stool.
        "What will it be Fleric?"
        "I shalt have some boar meat and a cup of thy finest wine"
        "Very good selection. Thy cost will be 5000 copper pieces, Fleric"
        Willfully, Fleric placed 5 platinum coins engraved with the quote
"In Annisette We Trust" on the polished table. Al gratefully grinned as he
scooped up the money and briskly walked-off jingling them in his enclosed
hands.
        Fleric slipped a small, ancient tome from his robe's long sleeve.
He flipped the yellow pages to the chapter on the 4 moons. Fleric's eyes
caught something that made his gray matter go to work.
        The inscription on the crinkled paper read: "When the 4 moons are
full, it shall raise the deceased. If thou even look at any grave during
that period, thou shalt meet thy untimely demise."  His almost hollow jaw
drooped. "Tonight is the night when all 4 moons ARE full." Fleric thought.
" I must warn everyone." His thin arm motioned at a brown haired woman who
held a mahogany lute. Her cotton clothes seemed oversized and a red silk
hat topped her scalp.
        "Why hello Fleric. What do thou want with a wandering minstreal
like me? Surely thou must have better things to do than talking to a
peasent like me."
        "Warn everyone that tonight all 4 moons are full. That is all I
want from thee, madame." Suddenly, time stood still as all the gossiping
and shouting terminated. Surprised eyes fixed themselves at Fleric. Without
hesitating, all the customers fled the vicinity whispering to each other.
        "I do not think that will be necessary Fleric. Everyone else should
know it by now." the woman replies. With that, she walks up to Al and
started strumming on her lute a song of praise to the goddess Annisette.
        Heaving a great sigh, Fleric continued to peruse the tiny book :
"For thou to understand more, thou must understand how the moons behave.
Flit, Pop and Lag go from east to west, but Instanity flies across the
sky the other way. Flit is fast and Lag is slow in it's orbit. Pop is the
strangest of all the moons. It can appear any time and anywhere at night.
Because of these behaviors, the gravity of the moons mix itself with
the radiation from the sun, creating a dark rainbow. This unseen matter
stimulates evil and will raise the dead."
        Al's stout and jolly body loomed over Fleric as some food was
situated beside the Arch Bishop. Fleric's lunch smelled good. The odor
grabbed Fleric's bony hand and dragged it towards the cup of Brandy.
Still staring at the book, Fleric drew the wine closer to him. His hazel
eyes lifted from the book and rolled back as he gulped down the drink.

When he quenched his thirst, he put the bronze goblet back on the table
and slammed the book shut.
        A warrior embodied by plate armour sat on the flimsy stool on the
opposite side of the 4-legged wooden platform. SNAP! The stool crumpled
into countless splinters. THUD! The fighter collapsed on to the dirt floor.
        "Help me up Fleric" pleaded the myrmidon. His outstretched arm
beckoned Fleric (who was starting to nibble on his boar meat) to lift him
up. The Arch Bishop threw down the slab of meat and yanked the man off of
the floor with greasy hands.
        "Thank you Fleric"
        "Do not mention it Boris."
        "Guess what."
        "What?"
        "We have a mission to fulfill."
        "WE?!?!?"
        "Yes, we must rescue 5 children who wandered off towards the Graves
of the Ones Beyond! The Duke is willing to give us 5,000,000 copper pieces.
Look Fleric, we will split it 50/50. Okay?"
        "Fine" yawned Fleric.
        "Do not be so blase about it. Besides, I am looking to buy some
armour. Particularly, a set of mythril armour. I could use some light weight
armour and it does cost 25,000 gold, which means I will be spending all of
my reward money. After all, I want the armour to match the color of my
sword, X-Calibur!". Boris drew a blue bladed double edged sword from it's
sheath. The saber glowed with an ultramarine aura.
        "I will be back. Get ready though." Fleric bolted out of the bar
without even getting a tooth mark on the rest of his lunch."
        "What about thy lunch?"
        "I am not very hungry. You eat it!" called Fleric.

        Dashing towards his lodge far from the slums, Fleric knew he must
hurry, for the sun is about halfway covered by the horizon. As he ran into
the house, he hung his white robe on a steel rack by the foyer. The Arch
Bishop rushed into the Armoury. After flipping through his suits, cloaks,
capes and various pieces of chain mail, he grabbed a set of extremely
over-sized Dragonhide Armour. The cleric then fumbled with attaching his
burnt-sienna leather pouch on his zinc belt on the armour.  With 2 hands,
Fleric snapped a mythril plate on his left gauntlet. His right thumb and
index finger grasped a crystal shillelagh. With everything all set, Fleric
tried to promenade as swiftly as possible back to the pub.
        The aureate hemisphere lingered over the naked swarm of maple and
redwood trees.
        His footsteps became farther apart as Flit, one of the moons became
palpable to the eyesight.
        At the bar, Boris jingled a sac full of exotic elixers, while
gazing out the window. His eyes almost were shut and his chin rested safely
on his hand. Boris's eyelids popped open when his auditory nerves received
the words "I'm ready now".
        "Aaaaah. You visited the apothecary, Boris." stated Fleric.
The fighter's head nodded and with the cleric, they treaded over the leaf
infested ground toward the Graves of the Ones Beyond.
        The pair of warriors weaved pass the myriad of marble tombstones as
shrills of child laughter echoed from the direction of Garlock's charnel
house. Instinctively, they tracked the noise with their weapons drawn.
        Then Fleric and Boris saw it. All five children were sitting
Indian-style on the granite roof of the crypt. Their tiny fingers flicked
strange color disks into clay bowls on the other side of the stone slab.
        "Hey, it is F-Fleric!" stammered the smallest girl with rosy cheeks
and blonde curls.
        "Good af-I mean evening children. What are thou doing way out here?"

        "This is the best place for tiddlywinks! Right Tricia?" exclaimed
the overweight boy.
        "Yes it is Bubba. Where else can we find a flat surface as smooth
as this???" replied the older girl.
        "Come on children, we need to go home now." commanded Boris.
        "NO! I WILL NOT GO!" exclaimed the youngest boy with red hair.
        "Yes thou are." Boris flexed his huge biceps and lifted the boy off
the marble roof with his left hand. With the other hand he tapped Fleric's
shoulder with the hilt of X-Calibur. The Arch Bishop turned around to see
the ebony blade pointing at 3 of moons. Flit, Lag and Insanity glared with
bright light as though they were stars. Fleric nodded and led the parade of
children towards Arno.
        HOOOOOOOWLLLLLLLL! The howl of a distant wolf can be heard through
out the planet as Pop, the 4th moon appeared out of oblivion creating the
dark rainbow. Little did any know that the soil softly broke apart in a
nearby grave ahead of the party. A skeleton's crimson hand poked out from
the earth and grappled Fleric's leg as they walked by. THUMP! Fleric
plunged to the ground, full of shock as to what had hit him.
        Fleric recovered from the fall and dusted off his soiled armour.
The whole grisly skeleton began ascending from it's grave revealing half of
its cranium sliced off.
        "EEEEEEEEEEEEEEK!" cried all 5 children in unison, who huddled behind
Boris.
        Fleric's steel boots smacked the skeleton's ribs as it attempted to
strangle the cleric. The half rotted body disintegrated.
        More corpses began climbing out of their resting places as zombies,
ghouls, skeletons and wights without a sound attacked the heroes. Even
ghosts, specters and banshees rose out of their graves. Even inorganic
material began creeping towards the party.
        Every swish from Boris's X-Calibur decapitated at least one of the
undead, cutting down their numbers. Fleric's diamond shillelagh granulated
every atom of each spirit.

        Flapping it's hairy wings, a small mammal hovered around Nicky,
the red-haired boy. An emerald mist was dispensed from the animal,
transforming it into a dark being with a jet-black cape. The pearly white
fangs approahed Nicky's throat. Closer and nearer it came. Nicky tried to
scream for assistence, yet the shock petrified every muscle in the little
boy's body.
        This event was observed by Fleric just as a gargoyle threw a
buffet right into the Arch Bishop's intestines. Wincing in extreme pain,
Fleric reeled back and toppled onto the grass. At this point in the
battle, he saw this gruesome assault and dealt the neck-biter with a white
bulb. Used as a projectile, this seasoning landed right into the mouth of
the creature. With a puff of blue-green smoke, the attacker decimated
leaving a very terrified Nicky behind.
        Severed wrinkled, scarred body parts flew everywhere as more
monsters silently climbed out of their coffins.
        The marble gargoyle that struck Fleric earlier slashed it's
corundum claws at Boris's wooden shield. The small plate easily crumpled
under the relentless attacks from the living statue. X-Calibur suddenly
radiated with an azure blue light as Boris channeled his anger into the
mystical sword. With this sudden power, the myrmidon butchered the stone
giant.
        The number one appeared in Fleric's mind. He knew it was a cue sent
by the Goddess Annisette who heard their pleas for help. Death was
certainly a reality if he goes through this plan. He must help his friends.
        "REESHCENO!" the cleric chanted. The magical incantation summoned a
jiga-volt trail of electricity from the cosmos. The bolt fanned out,
vaporizing all the undead in a instant.

        The strain of this spell was way too much for any mere mortal's
endurance to withstand. Heaving the greatest sigh in his entire existence
as a sentient on this planet caused Fleric to crumple on a grassy hillock.
        Every bit of undead organic debris slowly faded away until this
cemetary looked as if nothing ever occurred.
        All the children hovered over the limp body of Fleric, they slapped
him, screamed and even dumped water on his face. His body still mimicked a
corpse.
        Bruno took 2 blistered fingers and felt the Arch Bishop's neck.
"His pulse is still, there. The pulse somewhat slowed down dramatically."
he thought.
        A cool, steady gust of wind ceased to blow the red, orange, yellow
and brown leaves around. For awhile it was a DEAD silence.
        KABOOOOM! A celestial lump of rock plummeted through the atmosphere
smashing in the planet. The force of such a jolt shattered the granite roof
of Garlock's mausoleum.
        "HA!HA!HA!HA!HA!HA!" chuckled a mysterious voice. The chill of such
voice sent shivers down everyone's spines.
        An iron guantlet pulverized the bolted steel door.
        "It can not be!" Boris muttered.
        The younger girl stammered "It is G-Garlock!"
        A half decomposed wool cloak engulfed the metal covered body as it
stepped out of it's charnel house.
        "YES! I AM ALIVE ONCE AGAIN!" bellowed the dark warrior.
        "Thou are not going to be much longer, as long as I am here!" Boris
answered.
        "Thou are such a fool! Surely thou must know that I am omnipotent!
Nothing can stop me! Weapons can never penetrate my eclipse armour!" At
Garlock's words Boris thrusted the ebony sowrd into his adversary. The dark
warrior wasn't even slightly incapacitated.
        "HA!HA! Even X-Calibur cannot damage someone who can become
intangible at will! Thanks to my armour!"

        "If we had the right potion, maybe we can awake Fleric" thought
Jeff, the biggest boy. "BRUNO! WE NEED A HEAL FLASK!" The fighter nodded
while nimbly dodging bone-shattering jabs and uppercuts. As his hand
reached into his bag, his hand completely smothered an elixer covered with
a rough surface.
        Jeff boldy ran up to Boris to receive the flask. He tossed it to
Bubba who quickly dumped the purple liquid into Fleric's mouth...

        Garlock raised his gloved hand and a lump of soil popped up,
slipping Boris. The fingers of Garlock locked together as he pounded at
Boris. The myrmidon rolled awat as the dark warrior's fist missed and
penetrated 4 feet of rocky soil.
        "Thou are such a feisty little fool! I shalt personally end thy
pathetic existence!"
        Bruno managed to stand up. His plate armour, gashed, dented,
scraped and cracked crumpled, leaving a studded leather suit.
        ZAP! Two projections of electrically charged photons flew at Boris.
Whack! Whack! Like a baseball player (the game does not exist yet), Boris
swung X-Calibur at the blasts. They dissapated at the contact with the
ebony blade.
        Fleric's eyes flashed open as he saw Boris reeling back and
crashing into a marble statue of a headless angel (actually it wasn't
headless before).
        "He's awake!" cried the 2 girls.
        Garlock's featureless titanium mask faced the cleric. Two crimson
glows on the mask glared.
        "Fleric, so......the Arch Bishop is here. Even your powers cannot

stop me! The 4 moons give me power beyond your comprehension. Taste the
fury of fire!" A gigantic ball of flames rushed towards Fleric. Lifting his
mythril shield, the blaze rebounded back at the dark warrior! This was such
a surprise Garlock never decreased the density of his molecules.
        "Aaaaaarh! You shall pay for this outrage!" cursed Garlock, who
right now was torched.
        "Your the one who is going to visit Apollyn forever!"
        "I will return...you can count on it. I WILL BE BA-"
        Boris's consciousness flowed back into his brain as his sweaty
biceps glistened in the moonlight.
        "Where's Garlock?"
        "Cremated"
        "Really?"
        "Yes"
        Annisette, goddess and well revered intentionally smashed 2 moons,
Flit and Insanity. The vacuum of space muffled all trace of the collision.
Now, all scholars and astronomers wondered what fate did the two moons
face?
        The party marched back to Arno, as the sad ringing and the chiming
of the iron bells reverberated in the darkness of the world.



                         AMIN AND THE EGCS

   Once upon a time . . . a peasant called Amin lost all his crops from his 
miserable little plot in a drought. He decided to seek his fortune in another 
village, and off he went on his donkey. On credit, he obtained a dozen 
hard-boiled eggs from a merchant for his journey.
   Seven years later, Amin returned to his village. This time he was riding a 
fine black horse, followed by a servant on a camel laden with gold and silver 
coins. Amin had become a rich man and the news of this soon spread through the
village. Straight away, the merchant who had given him the dozen eggs on 
credit knocked at Amin's door, asking for five hundred silver pieces in 
payment of the old debt. Amin of course refused to pay such a large sum and 
the matter was taken before the judge.
   On the day of the hearing, the merchant appeared in court at the appointed 
time, but of Amin there was no sign. The judge waited impatiently for a 
quarter of an hour, and was on the point of adjourning the hearing, when Amin 
dashed in, out of breath. At once, the merchant said, in defence of his 
demands:
   "I asked Amin for payment of five hundred silver coins, because twelve 
chickens might have hatched from the eggs he bought from me on credit, 
seven years ago. These chickens would have become hens and cockerels; more 
eggs would have been laid, these too would have hatched, and so on. After 
seven years, I might have had a great flock of fowls!"
   "Of course," agreed the judge. "Perfectly right." And turning to Amin with 
a hostile air, he ordered: "What have you to say for yourself? And, by the 
way, why are you late?" Amin did not turn a halr.
   "I had a plate of boiled beans in the house and I planted them in the 
garden to have a good crop next year!"
   "Fool!" exclaimed the judge. "Since when do boiled beans grow?" To which 
Amin promptly retorted:
   "And since when do boiled eggs hatch into chickens?"
   He had won his case.
   
   :.:.:.:.:.:.:.:.:.:.:.:.:.:.:.:.:.:.:.:.:.:.:.:.:.:.:.:.:.:.:.:.:.:.:.:.:.:.:
   :   Earth's Dreamlands    :  Info on: RPG's,  :(313)558-5024 : area code    :
   :RPGNet World HQ & Archive: Drugs, Industrial :(313)558-5517 : changes to   :
   :  1000's of text files   :  music, Fiction,  :InterNet      : (810) after  :
   :   No Elite / No porn    :   HomeBrew Beer.  :rpgnet@aol.com: Dec 1,1993   :
   :.:.:.:.:.:.:.:.:.:.:.:.:.:.:.:.:.:.:.:.:.:.:.:.:.:.:.:.:.:.:.:.:.:.:.:.:.:.:
   
   	Below you will find the rules that my friends and I have come up 
   with for Battletech.  These rules were meant to augment the existing 
   rules, not replace them.  _The Battletech Compendium_ is the ruleook 
   referenced throughout this text and is considered necessary for these rules 
   to be used fully.
   	One of the basic assumptions throughout this entire text is that 
   the Clans do not exist.  Granted, some of the technology presented in here 
   is Clan in nature or capability, but this system was started before the 
   Clans were presented.  The history of the Battletech Universe has also been 
   ignored completely.  This is evident with the huge variety of weapons and 
   the fact that (for example) LB-X autocannons weigh more than standard 
   autocannons.  For any system that is not specifically modifed or covered in 
   these rules assume that the standard rules for "Inner Sphere" systems take 
   precedence.
   	The 2x engine rules were created some time ago, exact date 
   forgotten.  These rules are of my design and should be considered 
   copyrighted.  The Observer rules were created based upon ideas found in the 
   Rec.Games.Mecha archives.  Credit is given at the end.
   	The Internal Structure and Armor rules were developed recently and 
   are pretty much an adjustment to existing rules plus added systems.  If 
   anything appears to have come from FASA then it probably did.
   	The Weapons list is a compilation of the existing weapons plus 
   those developed by myself, my friends, and others.  The alternate 
   ammunitions were an outgrowth of rules presented in the FASA product 
   _Unbound_ and material found in the aforementioned archives.  
   	The Infantry Rules were developed to make all types of infantry a 
   viable selection.  These rules were also intened to make them a little more 
   capable of playing a role on the battlefield.
   	The Credit Section is where I give credit to those who inspired me 
   to put something resembling their work into my compilation.  I tried to 
   give credit where it is due, but if you feel slighted I apologize.  One 
   source of inspiration and information tht is not credited there is FASA.  
   They deserve the credit for anything that resembles material from the 
   rulebook and the product _Unbound_.
   	If you have any questions, comments, or suggestions feel free to 
   send Email to MURRAYMD@UDAVXB.OCA.UDAYTON.EDU or 
   	Matt Murray
   	144 Medford Apt E
   	Dayton OH 45410
   
   				ENJOY!!!
   
   
   	T W O    E N G I N E    A N D    T W O    C O C K P I T    
   	
   	The 2xeng and 2xeng2xcockpit mech rules will require that you make 
   new mech sheets for these monsters.  With a little bit of work, clear tape, 
   and photocopies you can cut up, you can make the sheets no problem.  I'll 
   give you what location has how many crits of each thing.
   
   	2 ENGINE MECHS
   
   	The two engine mech is simply a battlemech that has such a high 
   speed that the weight or power requirements are so high that two engines 
   are requird as opposed to one.  For a mech to have two engines, it must 
   pass one of two requirements.  If it doesn't, then the mech will simply use 
   one engine.  NOTE: The weight requirements below are based upon standard 
   engine weights and are regardless of the possibility of the engines being 
   ST or XL engines. 
   
   	For the design of your mech, replace the rules for "Determine 
   engine weight" with this list:
   
   	1) Detremine the speed of the mech
   	2) Determine the Engine rating
   	3) Determine the Engine weight
   	4) Check to see if steps 2 or 3 qualify the mech for 2x engine 
   	   status.  If the mech does qualify, follow ths steps:
   		A) If the last digit of the Engine rating is a 5, add 5 to 
   		   the engine rating making it an even number.
   		B) Divide the engine rating by 2 creating the engine 
   		   ratings of the 2 smaller engines to be used.
   		C) Use the smaller engine ratings to determine the engine 
   		   weights of the two smaller engines.  
   		D) Modify the weights of the engines appropriately if you 
   		   are going to use ST or XL engines.
   		E) Add the weights of the engines together to determine the 
   		   final weight of th engines. 
   	(Note: Gyro weight is based upon the engine rating from line 4A.)
   		  
   REQUIREMENTS:
   
   If the mech is 55-100 tons, then the requirements are:
   
   	1) The required engine rating is above 400
   
   			or
   
   	2) The weight of the engine required is 75% or greater than the 
   	   weight of the mech.
   
   If the mech is 5-50 tons, then the requirements are:
   
   	1) The required engine rating is above 400
   
   			or
   
   	2) The weight of the engine required is 50% or greater than the
   	   weight of the mech.
   
   	Now that the rules for what mechs are allowed to have 2 engines 
   have been established, next are the special rules pertaining to them.
   
   	1) Since the mech has 2 fusion engines, it also has 20 heat sinks.
   		A) They can be made double heat sinks.
   		B) The number of HS that can be put on to an engine w/out 
   		   being represented on the critical hit table is based 
   		   upon the engine rating of each engine, not the combined 
   		   engine ratings. 
   		C) If the engine heat sinks are double HS, then divide the 
   		   number of heat sinks that can be put on an engine by the 
   		   number of crits each double heat sink takes up. (This 
   		   rule is put in so that double heat sinks are not common 
   		   and do not unbalance the game since heat is the 
   		   restraining factor in this game.  This rule is also 
   		   under the assumption that the rules concerning mixing 
   		   standard and double heat sinks are changed.  If you want 
   		   to, you can mount double and standard HS on a mech.  All 
   		   of the heat sinks from the engines must be the same 
   		   type.  All 20 must be either double or standard, not 
   		   half&half.  If you keep the original rule saying ALL 
   		   heat sinks must be the same type, then you may also 
   		   consider possibly ignore this subrule completely.
   	2) A damage track is kept for each engine.  It is possible for a 2x 
   	   engine mech to recieve 4 engine hits, 2 per engine.  When one of 
   	   the two engines receives 3 hits, it is destroyed and the move 
   	   rate of the mech is halved, rounding down.  The destroyed engine 
   	   also stops producing heat due to damage or moving.  A 2x engine 
   	   mech is considered destroyed when both engines are destroyed, 
   	   i.e.: When each engine has received 3 engine hits.  Any HS 
   	   mounted on the engine and not represented on the crit. hit table 
   	   for the mech are also destroyed. 
   	3) When the internal structure for a side torso has been completely 
   	   destroyed, that sides engine is also counted as destroyed with the 
   	   appropriate effects for losing one engine as outlined in rule 2.
   	4) The Critical Hit table for a 2x engined mech is different from 
   	   that you would find on a standard one.
   		A) Change the center torso by changing all engine slots 
   		   (11,12,13,22,23,24) into empty slots that can mount
   		   equipment.
   		B) Change both of the side torsos to this slot 
   		   configuration:
   
   			Standard	ST Engines	XL Engines
   
   			1. Engine	1. Engine	1. Engine
   			2. Engine	2. Engine	2. Engine
   			3. Engine	3. Engine	3. Engine
   			4. ______	4. ______	4. Engine
   			5. ______	5. ______	5. Engine
   			6. ______	6. ______	6. Engine
   
   			1. ______	1. Engine	1. Engine
   			2. Engine	2. Engine	2. Engine
   			3. Engine	3. Engine	3. Engine
   			4. Engine	4. Engine	4. Engine
   			5. ______	5. Engine	5. Engine
   			6. ______	6. Engine	6. Engine
   
   	(As you can see, you have a high to 100% chance of getting an 
   	 engine hit with the more advanced engines.)
   	
   	5) If the engines are going to use ST or XL technology, both must 
   	   be of the same type.
   	6) The heat produced from movement is doubled with 2x engine mechs. 
   	   Walking heat is 2 while running produces 4 heat.
           7) As before, regardless of technology level of the engine, each 
   	   engine requires only 3 engine hits to be destroyed.
    
   	DESIGN NOTES ON 2X ENGINE MECHS:  These rules were written long 
   before the clans came into the picture.  They were even written before the 
   rules for XL engines were published.  From the time we came out with the 
   rules for 2x engine mechs, we have experimented with rules for 2x engine 
   tanks (we never goofed with aerospace fighters, but that would be another 
   logical growth of the rules.)  The rules we developed never did seem 
   balanced and seemed to require a major rewrite of the tank rules, which we 
   did for some areas.  If you desire to have 2x engine tanks, you may want to 
   take a long hard look at them.  Realize that the limiting factors for 2x 
   engine mechs are: loss of internal space, loss of armor protection for the 
   engines due to sitting in the side torsos, ease of getting engine hits due to 
   doubled number of engine crits, and increased heat for movement.  All of these 
   limiting factors are not available for tanks based on the available rules.  
   There are no damage locations where tank engines are.  There are no 
   internal crit slots for tanks.  Tanks don't have to worry about movement 
   heat.  As you can see, tanks were made overly simple so that they were easy 
   to play and integrate.  Due to these simplifications, you can't easily 
   integrate 2x engine rules for them.  On further investigation, you'll see 
   that the same problems exist for aerospace fighters, conventional fighters, 
   and the other vehicles.  If you are going to put rules for 2x engines in 
   for other vehicles, you will have to rebuild a lot of the game.
   	The Clans would probably never have 2x engine mechs.  Their mechs 
   tend to point to a huge standardization policy throughout the clans and 
   would be very slow to change to 2x engines upon discovering 2x engine 
   mechs.  Even with those points of logic out of the way, it should be 
   apparent enough that the clans are nasty enough as they are and need no 
   further modification.  You will find that 2x engine mechs come only half 
   way to meeting the clans on even grounds.  *I* wouldn't want a 100 ton clan 
   mech with 2x engines stomping on my face and ripping my lipps off!  
   	
   
   
   	SPECIAL TECHNOLOGY  (ST)  ENGINES
   
   	ST engines were developed primarily to incorporate the weight 
   saving capabilities of XL engines without the huge space requirements.  ST 
   engines are best described as being halway between standard and XL engines. 
   ST engines are best used on one engine mechs that need extra tonnage for 
   ballistic weapons and extra space for the weapons themselves.  For 2x 
   engine mechs, internal space becomes critically short when both engines are 
   made XL, making the use of ST engines predominant.  
   
   	1) ST engines weigh .75 the weight of a standard engine, this in 
   	   comparison to XL engines that weigh .5 the weight of a standard
   	   engine.
   	2) ST engines require 3 extra crit slots on a critical hit table.  
   	   These crit slots have already been described for 2x engine 
   	   mechs.  For one engine mechs, ST engines require one extra slot 
   	   in each of the 3 torsos.
   	3) 3 engine hits are required to destroy an ST engine, regardless 
   	   if they are in the side or center torsos. 
   	4) For figuring the costs of an ST engine, as per p. 128 of _The 
   	   Battletech Compendium_, use the formula of:
   		(10,000 x rating x tonnage) / 75
   
   	NOTES ON ST ENGINES:  As you can see, ST engines are halfway XL 
   engines.  That's what they are intended to be.  When I first came up with 
   ST engines, I had trouble convincing my friends the need of ST engines.  
   They are truly put in for 2x engine mechs, I have never seen their use on 
   one engine mechs.  Use them as you please.
   	The Clans would probably never use ST engines.  They would more 
   then likely use XL engines exclusively.
   	Historically, you could say that ST engines are a stepping stone to 
   XL engines, with their use relegated primarily to 2x engine mechs.  You 
   could also say that Peripheral houses and governments developed them as 
   their best effort to reach XL technology.
   
   
   	2X COCKPIT and 2X ENGINE 2X COCKPIT MECHS
   
   	2x cockpit mechs are a natural outgrowth of mech designs that had 2 
   seats in a mech cockpit where one seat was for the mech pilot and the 
   other seat was for a commander/observer/nobody useful.  There are 3 types 
   of 2x cockpit mechs: one engine 2x cockpit, 2x engine 2x cockpit Alpha, and 
   2x engine 2x cockpit Beta.  After the descriptions of the three type of 2x 
   cockpit mechs rules will be given for their use.
   
   NOTE:  When examples of the internal structure are shown, there will be two 
   empty critical slots with astricks.  These are the slots for "extra" 
   sensors to be placed in.  They will be explained later in the rules.
   
   	2X COCKPIT MECHS:
   
   	These designs are achieved through the removal of the cockpit from 
   the head and replacing it with a cockpit in each side torso.
   
   	1) The critical hit table is modified by replacing the head with 
   	   six empty crit slots.  This effectively turns the head from a 
    	   cockpit center into a weapons platform.  This platform can have a 
    	   turret like a ground vehicle where the turret mechanism weighs 
   	   ten percent of the weapons mounted (round up to the nearest half 
   	   ton).  When the armor has been breached and internals have been 
   	   scored, roll for turret lock where the turret locks on a roll of 
   	   1-3.  If the turret locks, it locks facing the hexside that it 
   	   was firing into that turn.
   	2) The side torsos are modified as such:
   
   		LEFT SIDE TORSO			RIGHT SIDE TORSO
   
   		1) Life Support			1) Life Support
   		2) Sensors			2) Sensors
   	1	3) Cockpit		1	3) Cockpit
   		4) _______			4) _______
   		5) _______*			5) _______*
   		6) Life Support			6) Life Support
   
   		1) _______			1) _______
   		2) _______			2) _______
   	2	3) _______		2	3) _______
   		4) _______			4) _______
   		5) _______			5) _______
   		6) _______			6) _______
   
   	3) The pilot can be in one side or the other as long as which side 
   	   has the pilot and which side has the gunner is marked on the 
   	   sheet before the game begins. 
   
   	2X ENGINE 2X COCKPIT MECHS ALPHA
   
   	These types of mechs are achieved through the addition of a cockpit 
   to the center torso.  Traditionally the gunner would be positioned in the 
   torso and the pilot would be in the head.  This arrangement can be swapped 
   around with little problem, but it would seem more logical to have the 
   pilot in the head.
   
   	1) The head cannot be mounted on a turret.
   	2) The head and Center torso critical hit tables would look like 
   this:
   
   		Center torso		Head
   
   		1) _______		1) Life Support
   		2) _______		2) _______*
   	1	3) _______		3) Cockpit
   		4) Gyro			4) _______
   		5) Gyro			5) _______*
   		6) Gyro			6) Life Support
   
   		1) Life Support
   		2) Sensors
   	2	3) Cockpit
   		4) Gyro
   		5) Sensors
   		6) Life Support
   
   	3) To put the gunner in the head, move the sensors from the center 
   torso and put them in the #2 and #5 slots in the head.
   
   	2X ENGINE 2X COCKPIT MECHS BETA
   
   	These types of mechs are achieved through putting both of the 
   cockpits in the center torso.  The advantage of this arrangement is that the 
   head can act as a weapons platform like the rules above state.  The primary 
   disadvantage is that whenever the center torso is hit on a 2, both pilots 
   take damage and roll for consciousness.
   
   	1) The head can act as a turreted weapons platform as discussed 
   above in the rules for 2x cockpit mechs.
   	2) The center torso is modified as such:
   
   		CENTER TORSO
   
   		1) Life Support
   		2) Gyro
   	1	3) Cockpit
   		4) Gyro
   		5) Gyro
   		6) Life Support
   
   		1) Life Support
   		2) Sensors
   	2	3) Cockpit
   		4) Gyro
   		5) Sensors
   		6) Life Support
   
   	3) The pilot is in the upper cockpit while the gunner is in the 
   lower cockpit. Notice also that there are no provisions for there to be 
   backup sensors on this type of mech.
   
   	GENERAL RULES COVERING 2X COCKPIT MECHS
   
   	1) There are 2 cockpits on 2x cockpit mechs.  One is for a pilot 
   where the other one is for a gunner.  These two pilots work together to 
   pilot and fight the mech.  The cumulative effect of these two working 
   together and being able to concentrate on their jobs is that the piloting and 
   gunnery skills are better.  To reflect these advantages, a mech with two 
   cockpits has a -1 bonus on its to hit and piloting target numbers.
   	2) The pilot controls the piloting functions of the mech, but he 
   can also do weapons firing.  If the gunner should be killed, the pilot can 
   take over weapons fire.  The turn after the gunner is killed, the mech can 
   not fire weapons but can still move.  This represents the pilot realizing the 
   loss of the gunner and switching over gunnery systems to his control.  
   After this turn of lost weapons fire, the pilot operates the mech without 
   the piloting skill bonus and has a +1 penalty to weapons fire.
   	3) The gunner controls the firing functions of the mech, but he can 
   also pilot the mech.  If the pilot should be killed, the gunner can take 
   over moving the mech.  The turn after the pilot is killed, the mech can not 
   move but may continue to fire weapons.  This represents the gunner 
   realizing the loss of the pilot and switching over movement systems to his 
   control.  After this turn of lost movement, the gunner operates the mech 
   without the gunnery bonus and has a +1 penalty to piloting skill.
   	4) The bonuses and penalties mentioned above are treated just like 
   any of the bonuses and penalties found in the rules and can be made 
   cumulative with any other modifiers.  If the players are using the optional 
   rules for DNI and VRPP piloting enhancements, they can also be used with 2x 
   cockpit mechs.  (The two pilots had better know each other *VERY* well to 
   be allowed to use DNI.)
   	5) If both the pilot and the gunner are killed, then the mech is 
   considered destroyed.     
   	6) The Sensors that were deleted from one of the cockpits can be 
   left in to serve as backup sensors.  Either one or both of the deleted 
   sensors can be left in.  As long as there are two undestroyed Sensors 
   critical hit locations remaining on the mech, there is no effect from 
   Sensors hits.
   	7) When a 2 is rolled onto a torso hit location that has a cockpit 
   in it will also damage the pilot/gunner like a head hit. 
   	8) When a 2x cockpit mech falls, the pilot must roll two piloting 
   skill rolls to determine if both he and the gunner take damage.  Roll each 
   one seperately.
   	9) When ammunition explodes, each pilot takes one point of damage 
   as oppossed to both taking two points.  If one of the pilots is dead, then 
   the other takes 2 points of damage.
   	10) Life support hits are kept for each cockpit and are seperate 
   from each other.  It is possible for one pilot to take hits from excess 
   heat and the other to be perfectly fine.
   	11) Conciousness rolls for each pilot are done seperately and are 
   independant of each other.  It is possible for one pilot to be unconcious 
   while the other is not.  If this should happen, treat the unconcious pilot 
   to be "temporarely" dead.  Refer to rules 2 & 3 for switchover procedure.  
   When the unconcious pilot regains conciousness, he may resume his functions 
   at the beginning of the next turn. 
   
   	Design notes on 2x cockpit mechs:  2x cockpit mechs are just about 
   the epitome of Battlemech technology when you combine 2x engine 2x cockpit 
   rules with ST/XL engine rules.  Throw in any other sundry advanced 
   technologies you wish and you will have true war machines.
   	These rules were developed well before the Clans came out.  Based 
   on the reading I've done, I don't think the clans would go for this type of 
   mechs.  Their honor code would seem to dictate that they fight "without 
   someone else's help."  Anyway, would you want the Clans to be any more 
   powerful?
   
   	C O C K P I T   S E C O N D   S E A T S / O B S E R V E R S 
   
   	Normally the cockpit of a mech has a second seat for a passenger 
   but that seat has no special function.  These rules are designed to add 
   special seatings for specialty observers.  Note that the people in these 
   seats *CAN NOT* control the mech that they are in in any special manner or 
   way.  (Exception:  Mech Gunners)  They are only observers.
   	If the critical hit location that the second chair takes up is 
   destroyed then the passenger is killed and cannot perform their function.  
   If the pilot's critical hit location is destroyed then the mech is 
   considered destroyed for one cockpit mechs.  2x cockpit mechs are different 
   in that the cockpit up in the head (normally the pilot's cockpit) is the 
   only cockpit that can have a second chair.  Destruction of the head still 
   results in the Observers death as well as the pilot/gunner, but the 2x 
   cockpit mech still functions as per the 2x cockpit rules.  (Exception:  
   Mech Gunners:  The mech is not considered destroyed if the head is still 
   intact and the pilot is unconcious/dead then the gunner can still fire the 
   mech's weapons.  Mech gunners can not be used in 2x cockpit mechs.)
   	
   
   	Artillery Spotter:  The Artillery Spotter is a trained professional 
   in the coordination of off-board artillery fire.  Their seat has range 
   finding and communication equipment built in to assist them.
   	ADVANTAGES:  The AS mech can act as an oberver for off board 
   artillery fire.  Any off board artillery fire using this mech as the 
   observer gets a -2 to hit bonus for Observing unit Gunnery Skill as per 
   p.49 of _The Battletech Compendium_.
   	WEIGHT:  The Artillery Spotter seat weighs 1.5 tons and takes 
   up 1 critical location in the head.
   
   	Company Commander:  The company commander can be in a command mech 
   that has a trusted pilot piloting his mech while he pays attention to the 
   battle.  His attention to the battle plus his training gives his company a 
   special advantage over those that do not have a dedicated command mech.
   	ADVANTAGES:  The Command Mech and the 11 other mechs designated as 
   being in the comapany get a special and seperate Initiative Roll.  They 
   roll 2D6 for their Initiative instead of the regular 1D6.
   	DISADVANTAGES/REQUIREMENTS:  For the Company Commander to be able 
   to do his/her job the command mech must be equipped with 2 C^3 Masters and 
   the rest of the company must be set up with the C^3 system as per the rules 
   in _The Battletech Compendium_ p.118.  This communication and coordination 
   still continues even if LOS between company mates is blocked or there is a 
   Guardian operating in the LOS, even if the C^3 does not work.
   	WEIGHT:  The Commander's seat weighs 1 ton and takes up 1 critical 
   spot in the head.
   
   	Forward Observer:  The Forward Observer is a person trained in the 
   coordination and directin of all indirect fire.  S/he can assist in the firing 
   of normal artillery fire and indirect missile fire.
   	ADVANTAGES:  The FO mech can act as an observer for a unit firing 
   LRM or BRM missiles indirectly.  For this fire there is no +1 automatic 
   penalty to the to hit and the FO mech can make attacks as normal.  The FO 
   mech can also act as a spotter for off board artillery fire, giving a -1 to 
   hit bonus for Observing unit Gunnery Skill as per p.49 of _The Battletech 
   Compendium_.
   	WEIGHT:  The Forward Observer seat weighs 1 tons and 1 critical 
   spot in the head.
   
   	Mech Gunner:  The Mech Gunner is a Mechwarrior in a specially 
   designed chair that allows the gunner to fire the mech's weapons while the 
   normal pilot concentrates on piloting the mech.  While this system has the 
   same advantages as 2 cockpits, it still has the inherent disadvantage that 
   destroying the head will knock out the mech.
   	ADVANTAGES:  The mech with a mech gunner can fire weapons and pilot 
   better.  Any Piloting Skill rolls and weapons fire is done at a -1 bonus, 
   cumulative with other bonuses and penalties.
   	DISADVANTAGES:  The mech gunner in this system cannot be combined 
   with the 2 cockpit system, it is either/or.  If the gunner gets knocked out 
   via unconciousness or critical hit then the mech cannot fire weapons.  If 
   the pilot is knocked out in a similar manner then the mech cannot move.  If 
   the head is destroyed then the mech is counted as destroyed.  Otherwise 
   refer to rules 8, 9, and the first part of 11 in the 2 cockpit rules for 
   assitional information.  Mech Gunner chairs can not be installed on 2x 
   cockpit mechs.
   	WEIGHT:  The Mech Gunner seat weighs 2 tons and takes up 1 critical 
   hit location in the head.
   
   		G Y R O   D E S I G N   C H A N G E S 
   
   	Gyros can be rounded to the nearest half or quarter ton, depending 
   on what your are rounding nearest to in your design.
   
   
   	A L T E R N A T E  I N T E R N A L  S T R U C T U R E S
   				   and
   				A R M O R 	
   
   	There are several different types of internal structures, armors, 
   and defensive systems that can be used by a mech.  Each are detailed below.
   
   	Endo Steel:  This is the same as presented in the books with the 
   exception of changing the number of critical hit locations that are taken 
   up.  This is done to make its use more viable.
   	TONS:  Half Standard
   	Slots:  10
   
   	Nitivir Composite:  This extra strong internal structure is made 
   from a laticed composite of Nickel, Titanium, Vanadium, Iridium, and other 
   standard metals.  This combonation is heavier and bulkier than standard 
   internal structure but is 25% more resilient to damage and allows the mech 
   to mount heavier armor.
   	The mech with Nitivir Composite multiplies the amount of internal 
   points for each of the internal structure areas by 1.25, round .5 up.  This 
   new, higher number is the amount of internal structure each area has and is 
   used as the base for the max number of armor points that the area can mount.  
   If the number of internal structure or armor points in a location exceeds the 
   number of circles that the mech sheet has simply write the excess points next 
   to the appropriate location.
   	TONS:  Standard
   	Slots:  10
   
   	Standard Internal Structure:  The standard internal structure is 
   not changed at all from the rules.  It is though used as the basis of 
   comparison for the other internal structures.
   
   	---	---	---	---	---	---	---	---
   
   	The below armor types are "base" armors and are not compatible with 
   each other.  See the defensive systems below to see which are compatible 
   with what.
   
   	Ferro-Fibrous Armor:  This armor is like that presented in the 
   rules with changes to make its use more viable.  The Armor Value is 
   multiplied by 1.2 instead of 1.12.  (Where did they get 1.12?)
   	TONS:  Standard
   	Slots:  10
   
   	Ceramo-Steel Armor:  This armor uses the natural heat resistive 
   properties of ceramic materials and meshes them within layers of standard 
   armor.  Ceramo-Steel armor comes in 2 ratings: Level 1 and Level 2. 
   	Level 1 Ceramo-Steel comes with a armor rating multiplier of 1.1 
   similar to Ferro-Fibrous and makes the mech invulnerable to energy weapons 
   target heat (From lasers, PPCs, etc).  Incindiery Target Heat from Infernos, 
   Flamers, and the like still affect the mech normally. 
   	Level 2 Ceramo-Steel Armor gets no armor multiplier but makes the 
   mech invulnerable to *any* target heat.
   	TONS: Standard (for both levels)
   	Slots:  10 (for both levels)
   
   	Reflective Armor:  This is an armor where the armor plates have been 
   covered in layers of polished metallic flakes.  The effect is to reduce the 
   effectiveness of lasers hitting the target.  The disadvantage is that the 
   overall armor resiliancy is reduced.
   	Reflective Armor reduces the effectiveness of incoming laser fire.  
   All laser fire that hits the mounting vehicle has 1 point of damage 
   subtracted from it.  EXAMPLE:  A large laser and 2 medium lasers are fired 
   at a tank with reflective armor.  The net damage is: 15 (8-1 + 5-1 + 5-1).
   	Reflective armor gives less protection than standard armor and  
   is expressed by multiplying the number of armor points available by .9.
   
   	Standard Armor:  This ablative armor is not changed from the game, 
   yet is used as the basis of comparison for other armors.
   
   	---	---	---	---	---	---	---	---
   
   	Below are defensive systems that can be designed into a mech in 
   addition to other armors/defensive systems.  Refer to the description of 
   each one to determine what can armors/systems can be used on the same 
   mech/vehicle.
   
   	Blue Shield Project:  This system is a concentrated particle field 
   dampener which dissipates incoming PPC fire.
   	Blue Shield way 3 tons and takes up one critical hit space in each 
   of the mech/vehicle's hit locations.  This system halves the damage of any 
   LPPC, PPC, HPPC, or variants.  A critical hit to a Blue Shield slot destroys 
   the entire shield.
   	Every time that Blue Shield is activated by PPC or HPPC hit roll 
   2D6.  On a roll of 2 when hit by a PPC or on a roll of 2 or 3 when hit by 
   HPPC the system overloads, destroying all of the shield critical locations 
   and inflicting 5 points of internal damage to all of the hit locations 
   except for the head which takes one point of internal damage.
   	Blue Shield is compatible with all of the armors and can be use 
   with the other defensive systems.
   
   	Chameleon System:  This is a system that evaluates the surrounding 
   terrain with electronic sensors and changes the color scheme of the armor 
   on the mech/vehicle.  It works best when the mounting vehicle is not moving 
   and in some type of obscuring terrain.
   	The Chameleon System weighs 3 tons and takes up one critical hit 
   space in each hit location.  This system adds a +1 to hit penalty to any 
   weapons fire against the mounting vehicle when the mounting vehicle is 
   standing still, walks/cruises or jumps.  It has no effect when the mounting 
   vehicle runs/flanks.  When the mounting vehicle is stationary for the turn 
   in a hex that provides terrain modifiers to hit (Woods, smoke, etc.) the 
   terrain to hit penalties against the mounting vehicle are used as the 
   effects of the Chameleon System.  EXAMPLE: Fred walks his mech that has 
   the Chameleon System and ends it in a heavy woods hex.  Since he walked it 
   any fire against his mech has a +1 to hit penalty in addition to any other 
   modifiers.  The next turn Fred does not move his mech, remaining in the 
   heavy woods hex.  The Chameleon System gives any fire against the mech a +4 
   to hit penalty (+2 for heavy woods hex that the Chameleon System emulates) 
   in addition to the +2 for the heavy woods his mech is in and any other 
   modifiers.
   	The Chameleon System is not very good at keeping the color 
   coordination if the mounting vehicle is running/flanking or jumping.  This 
   difficulty can overload the system with disasterous results.  At the end of 
   any turn that the mounting vehicle runs/flanks or jumps it must roll 2D6.  
   On a roll of 2, 3, or 4 the system has overloaded and explodes.  This destroys 
   all of the system's critical locations and inflicts 5 points of internal 
   damage to all of the hit locations except for the head which takes one point 
   of internal damage.
   	The Chameleon System can be used with all armors except Reflective 
   Armor and defensive systems except for Reactive Armor.
   
   	Reactive Armor:  This is bolted on armor that protects the mech 
   from slow incoming projectiles by using a shaped charge to blow them away.  
   It can be combined with any of the other types of armor.  The covering of 
   Reactive Armor requires internal support brackets which take up space.
   	Reactive Armor requires 1 critical hit space in each of the mech's/ 
   vehicle's locations and weighs equal to the mech's/vehicle's tonnage/20.  Any 
   missile and certain other weapon attacks made against the target with reactive 
   armor do half damage, round fractions up.  The armor location hit must have 
   armor points left for this to work or there will be no effect.  Any critical 
   hits to the Reactive Armor slots count as no effect.  VTOLs may not have 
   reactive armor.  Reactive Armor has no effect upon TSM or Inferno.
   	Every time that the mech is hit by missile fire and Reactive Armor 
   is used roll 2D6.  On a roll of a 2 the armor has blown back the missile at 
   a bad angle.  Apply the half damage to the location hit and then roll for 
   another hit location.  This second hit location takes an equal amount of 
   damage as the first.
   	Reactive Armor is compatible with all armor and defensive systems 
   except for Chameleon System.  Reactive Armor will not explode when set 
   afire.
   
   		W E A P O N S    T A B L E
   
   TYPE		DAMAGE	HEAT	TAR/HEAT  MIN.	RANGE	(S/M/L/Ex./Max.)	
   ----		------	----	--------  ----	-----		
   S. Laser	3	1	-	  -	1/2/3/4/5
   M. Laser	5	3	.5	  -	1-3/4-6/7-9/10-12/13-15
   L. Laser	8	8	1	  -	1-5/6-10/11-15/16-20/21-25
   ER Small Laser	3	2	-	  -	1-2/3-4/5-6/7-8/9-10
   ER Medium Laser	5	5	.5	  -	1-5/6-10/11-15/16-20/21-25
   ER Large Laser	8	12	1	  -	1-7/8-14/15-21/22-28/29-35
   S. Pul. Laser	3	2	.5	  -	1/2/3/4/5
   M. Pul. Laser	6	4	1	  -	1-2/3-4/5-6/7-8/9-10
   L. Pul. Laser	9	10	2	  -	1-3/4-6/7-9/10-12/13-15
   Light PPC	5	5	1	  4	1-7/8-14/15-21/22-28/29-35
   PPC		10	10	2	  3	1-6/7-12/13-18/19-24/25-30
   Heavy PPC	15	15	3	  2	1-5/6-10/11-15/16-20/21-25
   ER Light PPC	5	7	1	  -	1-8/9-16/17-24/25-32/33-40
   ER PPC		10	15	2	  -	1-7/8-14/15-21/22-28/29-35
   ER Heavy PPC	15	23	3	  -	1-6/7-12/13-18/19-24/25-30
   Pul. LPPC	6	6	2	  3	1-5/6-10/11-15/16-20/21-25
   Pul. PPC	11	11	3	  2	1-4/5-8/9-12/13-15/16-18
   Pul. HPPC	16	16	4	  1	1-3/4-6/7-9/10-12/13-15
   Light EDC	5	3	-	  3	1-6/7-12/13-18/19-24/25-30
   EDC		10	7	1	  2	1-5/6-10/11-15/16-20/21-25
   Heavy EDC	15	10	2	  -	1-3/4-6/7-9/10-12/13-15
   Rail Gun	5	0	-	  4	1-9/10-18/19-27/28-36/37-45
   Rail Cannon	10	1	-	  3	1-8/9-16/17-24/25-32/33-40
   Gauss Rifle	15	2	-	  2	1-7/8-14/15-21/22-28/29-35
   Gauss Cannon	20	3	-	  1	1-6/7-12/13-18/19-24/25-30
   A/C 2		2	0	-	  4	1-8/9-16/17-24/25-32/33-40
   A/C 5		5	1	-	  3	1-6/7-12/13-18/19-24/25-30
   A/C 10		10	3	-	  -	1-5/6-10/11-15/16-20/21-25
   A/C 15		15	5	-	  -	1-4/5-8/9-12/13-15/16-18
   A/C 20		20	7	-	  -	1-3/4-6/7-9/10-12/13-15
   A/C 2  Ultra	2 (x2)	0	-	  4	1-8/9-16/17-24/25-32/33-40
   A/C 5  Ultra	5 (x2)	1(x2)	-	  3	1-6/7-12/13-18/19-24/25-30
   A/C 10 Ultra	10(x2)	3(x2)	-	  -	1-5/6-10/11-15/16-20/21-25
   A/C 15 Ultra	15(x2)	5(x2) 	-	  -	1-4/5-8/9-12/13-15/16-18
   A/C 20 Ultra	20(x2)	7(x2)	-	  -	1-3/4-6/7-9/10-12/13-15
   LB2-X		2	0	-	  4	1-8/9-16/17-24/25-32/33-40
   LB5-X		5	1	-	  3	1-6/7-12/13-18/19-24/25-30
   LB10-X		10	3	-	  -	1-5/6-10/11-15/16-20/21-25
   LB15-X		15	5	-	  -	1-4/5-8/9-12/13-15/16-18
   LB20-X		20	7	-	  -	1-3/4-6/7-9/10-12/13-15
   Machine Gun	2	0	-	  -	1/2/3/4/5
   Vulcan		4	1	-	  -	1-2/3-4/5-6/7-8/9-10
   Light Cannon	3	0	-	  -	1-3/4-6/7-9/10-12/13-15
   Flamer		2	3	3(I)	  -	1/2/3/4/5
   Flame Thrower	4	5	5(I)	  -	1-2/3-4/5-6/7-8/9-10
   Coolant Cannon	0	0	(-10)	  -	1/2/3/4/5
   BRM/6		1D6	2	-	  7	1-9/10-18/19-27/28-36/37-45
   BRM/12		2D6	4	-	  7	1-9/10-18/19-27/28-36/37-45
   BRM/18		3D6	6	-	  7	1-9/10-18/19-27/28-36/37-45
   BRM/24		4D6	8	-	  7	1-9/10-18/19-27/28-36/37-45
   BRM/30		5D6	10	-	  7	1-9/10-18/19-27/28-36/37-45
   LRM/5		1/hit	2	-	  6	1-7/8-14/15-21/22-28/29-35
   LRM/10		1/hit	4	-	  6	1-7/8-14/15-21/22-28/29-35
   LRM/15		1/hit	5	-	  6	1-7/8-14/15-21/22-28/29-35
   LRM/20		1/hit	6	-	  6	1-7/8-14/15-21/22-28/29-35
   TSM/1	    (5/2)/hit	2	-	  6	1-7/8-14/15-21/22-28/29-35
   TSM/2	    (5/2)/hit	4	-	  6	1-7/8-14/15-21/22-28/29-35
   TSM/3	    (5/2)/hit	5	-	  6	1-7/8-14/15-21/22-28/29-35
   TSM/4	    (5/2)/hit	6	-	  6	1-7/8-14/15-21/22-28/29-35
   MRM/3		1/hit	1	-	  3	1-5/6-10/11-15/16-20/21-25
   MRM/6		1/hit	2	-	  3	1-5/6-10/11-15/16-20/21-25
   MRM/9		1/hit	3	-	  3	1-5/6-10/11-15/16-20/21-25
   MRM/12		1/hit	4	-	  3	1-5/6-10/11-15/16-20/21-25
   SRM/2		2/hit	2	-	  -	1-3/4-6/7-9/10-12/13-15
   SRM/4		2/hit	3	-	  -	1-3/4-6/7-9/10-12/13-15
   SRM/6		2/hit	4	-	  -	1-3/4-6/7-9/10-12/13-15
   Streak SRM/2	2x2	2	-	  -	1-3/4-6/7-9/10-12/13-15
   Streak SRM/4	2x4	3	-	  -	1-3/4-6/7-9/10-12/13-15
   Streak SRM/6	2x6	4	-	  -	1-3/4-6/7-9/10-12/13-15
   CRM/1		3/hit	0	-	  -	1/2/3/4/5
   CRM/2		3/hit	1	-	  -	1/2/3/4/5
   CRM/3		3/hit	2	-	  -	1/2/3/4/5
   CRM/4		3/hit	3	-	  -	1/2/3/4/5
   Inferno/1	-	2	(5/2)(I)  -	1-7/8-14/15-21/22-28/29-35
   Inferno/2	-	1	5/hit(I)  -	1-3/4-6/7-9/10-12/13-15
   Inferno/3	-	1	3.3/ht(I) 3	1-5/6-10/11-15/16-20/21-25
   Inferno/5	-	2	2/hit(I)  6	1-7/8-14/15-21/22-28/29-35
   TAG Laser	-	0	-	  -	1-5/6-10/11-15/16-20/21-25
   NARC		-	0	-	  -	1-3/4-6/7-9/10-12/13-15
   AMS		-	1	-	  -	Special rules
   AML		-	3	-	  -	Refer to note
   PAML		-	1D6	-	  -	Refer to note
   AP pods		1D6-1	0	-	  -	0-1 Auto hit
   Hatchet		1/5 ton	0	-	  -	Close combat
   Sword		1/10ton 0	-	  -	Close combat
   Buzzsaw		2D6	3	-	  -	Close combat
   Arrow IV	20/10	10	-	  -	5 maps
   Bolt III	10/5	5	-	  -	5 maps
   Dart II		5/2	3	-	  -	5 maps
   Long Tom	20/10	20	-	  -	20 maps
   Sniper		10/5	10	-   	  -	14 maps
   Thumper		5/2	6	-	  -	12 maps
   Self Destruct	ER/15	A lot	ER/30	  -	0/1
   
   RANGE	   	TARGET #	DAMAGE and TARGET HEAT MODIFIERS
   -----		--------	--------------------------------
   Short (S)	   4		Normal Damage
   Medium (M)	   6		Normal Damage
   Long (L)	   8		Normal Damage
   Extreme (Ex.)	  10		Damage&Tar. Ht. x.75 (round .5+ up) 
   Maximum (Max.)	  12		Damage&Tar. Ht. x.5 (round .5 up)
   
   Note:  Missiles roll on the Extreme Range Missile Hit Chart and the Maximum 
   Range Missile Hit Chart when firing at those ranges.  BRM's roll D6-1 at 
   Extreme Range and D3 at Maximum Range.
   
   
   	MISSILE 	HIT		CHARTS
   
   		STANDARD  MISSILE  HIT  CHART
   		-----------------------------
   DIE ROLL		# of MISSILES
   		   2   3   4   5   6   9   10   12   15   20
   		-----------------------------------------------
      2		   1   1   1   1   2   3    3    4    5    6
      3		   1   1   2   2   2   3    3    4    5    6
      4		   1   1   2   2   3   4    4    6    6    9
      5		   1   2   2   3   3   5    6    6    9   12
      6		   1   2   2   3   4   6    6    8    9   12
      7	  	   1   2   3   3   4   6    6    8    9   12
      8		   2   2   3   3   4   7    6    8    9   12
      9		   2   3   3   4   5   8    8   10   12   16
     10		   2   3   3   4   5   8    8   10   12   16
     11		   2   3   4   5   6   9   10   12   15   20
     12		   2   3   4   5   6   9   10   12   15   20
   
   		EXTREME  RANGE  MISSILE  HIT  CHART
   		-----------------------------------
   DIE ROLL		# of MISSILES
   		   2   3   4   5   6   9   10   12   15   20
   		-----------------------------------------------
      2		   1   1   1   1   1   1    2    3    3    4
      3		   1   1   1   1   1   2    2    3    4    5
      4		   1   1   1   1   2   3    3    4    5    7
      5		   1   1   2   2   2   4    4    5    6    8
      6		   1   1   2   2   2   4    4    6    6    9
      7	  	   1   1   2   2   3   5    5    6    7    9
      8		   1   2   2   3   3   5    5    6    7   10
      9		   1   2   3   3   4   6    6    7    8   11
     10		   1   2   3   3   4   6    6    8    9   12
     11		   2   3   3   4   5   7    7    9   11   14
     12		   2   3   3   4   5   7    8    9   12   15
   
   		MAXIMUM  RANGE  MISSILE  HIT  CHART
   		-----------------------------------
   DIE ROLL		# of MISSILES
   		   2   3   4   5   6   9   10   12   15   20
   		-----------------------------------------------
      2		   1   1   1   1   1   1    1    2    2    3
      3		   1   1   1   1   1   1    2    2    3    3
      4		   1   1   1   1   1   2    2    3    3    4
      5		   1   1   1   2   2   2    3    3    4    6
      6		   1   1   1   2   2   3    3    4    4    6
      7	  	   1   1   2   2   2   3    3    4    5    6
      8		   1   1   2   2   2   3    3    4    5    6
      9		   1   2   2   2   2   4    4    5    6    8
     10		   1   2   2   2   3   4    4    5    6    8
     11		   1   2   2   2   3   4    5    6    7   10
     12		   1   2   2   3   3   5    5    6    8   10
   
   
   	CONSTRUCTION		PARTICULARS
   
   WEAPON		TONS	SHOTS/TON	CRITICAL	NOTES
   ------		----	---------	--------	-----
   S. Laser	.5	-		.5		#1
   M. Laser	1	-		1		#2
   L. Laser	4	-		2		#3
   ER Small Laser	.5	-		.5		#1
   ER Medium Laser 1	-		1		#2
   ER L. Laser	4	-		2		#3
   S. Pul. Laser	1	-		1		-2 to hit
   M. Pul. Laser	2	-		1		-2 to hit
   L. Pul. Laser	6	-		2		-2 to hit
   Light PPC	3	-		2		#4
   PPC		7	-		3		
   Heavy PPC	9	-		4		#4
   ER Light PPC	3	-		2		#4
   ER PPC		7	-		3		
   ER Heavy PPC	9	-		4		#4
   Pul. LPPC	4	-		2		-1 to hit
   Pul. PPC	8	-		3		-1 to hit
   Pul. HPPC	10	-		4		-1 to hit
   Light EDC	3.5	20		3		#5
   EDC		8	15		5		#5
   Heavy EDC	11	10		7		#5
   Rail Gun	9	20		4		Explodes for 10
   Rail Cannon	12	15		5		Explodes for 15
   Gauss Rifle	15	8		7		Explodes for 20
   Gauss Cannon	18	4		9		Explodes for 25
   A/C 2		3	45		1		#6
   A/C 5		4	20		4		#6
   A/C 10		10	10		6		#6
   A/C 15		12	7		8		
   A/C 20		14	5		10		
   A/C 2  Ultra	4	45		2		Double shot, #6
   A/C 5  Ultra	6	20		4		Double shot, #6
   A/C 10 Ultra	13	10		7		Double shot, #6
   A/C 15 Ultra	14.5	7		9		Double shot
   A/C 20 Ultra	16	5		11		Double shot
   LB2-X		3.5	45		1		Shotgun w/-1,#6,#7
   LB5-X		5	20		4		Shotgun w/-1,#6,#7
   LB10-X		11	10		7		Shotgun w/-1,#6,#7
   LB15-X		13	7		8.5		Shotgun w/-1,#1
   LB20-X		15	5		10		Shotgun w/-1
   Machine Gun	.5	200		.5		#1
   Vulcan		1	100		1		
   Light Cannon	1	100		1		
   Flamer		1	-		1		#8
   Flame Thrower	2	-		1		#8
   Coolant Cannon	1	2		N/A (1)		#9
   BRM/6		3	14		2		#10
   BRM/12		6	10		4		#10
   BRM/18		9	6		6		#10
   BRM/24		12	5		8		#10
   BRM/30		15	4		10		#10
   LRM/5		2	24		1		
   LRM/10		5	12		2		
   LRM/15		7	8		3		
   LRM/20		10	6		5		
   TSM/1		2	18		1		#11
   TSM/2		5	9		2		#11
   TSM/3		7	6		3		#11
   TSM/4		10	4		5		#11
   MRM/3		1	50		1		#12
   MRM/6		2	25		2		#12
   MRM/9		3	15		3		#12
   MRM/12		4	10		4		#12
   SRM/2		1	50		1		
   SRM/4		2	25		1		
   SRM/6		3	15		2		
   Streak SRM/2	1.5	50		1		
   Streak SRM/4	3	25		2		
   Streak SRM/6	4.5	15		2		
   CRM/1		.5	50		.5		#13
   CRM/2		1	25		1		#13
   CRM/3		1.5	15		1.5		#13
   CRM/4		2	10		2		#13
   Inferno/1	3	9		2		#14
   Inferno/2	2	25		2		#14
   Inferno/3	2	25		2		#14
   Inferno/5	3	12		2		#14
   TAG Laser	1	-		1		#15		
   NARC		3	6		2		#16
   Artemis		1	-		1		#17
   AMS		.5	50		1		#18
   AML		1.5	-		2		#18
   PAML		3	-		2		#18
   AP pods		.5	one shot	0		
   Hatchet		1/15 ton		1/15 ton
   Sword		1/15 ton		1/15 ton	-2 to hit
   Buzzsaw		4	-		2	Att roll 2 dest. saw
   Arrow IV	15	5		15		
   Bolt III	10	10		10
   Dart II		7	20		7
   Long Tom	30	5		30		
   Sniper		20	10		20		
   Thumper		15	20		15		
   Icewind		.5	one shot	0		#19
   C^3 Master	5	-		5
   C^3 Slave	1	-		1
   Beagle		1.5	-		2
   Guardian	1.5	-		2
   AAR		1per5	-		1per5 tons	#20
   GAR		1per5	-		1per5 tons	#21
   Target Comp.	1per5	-		1per5 tons	
   Infantry pods	4.5	1 Platoon	3		#22
   BAIP		2	1 Star		2		#23
   Self Destruct	1	Your mech!	1		#24
   
   	1) The .5 critical means that 2 of these weapons can be fitted into 
   one location.  If this location gets hit, both weapons are lost.  The two 
   weapons can be considered "banked" as per the rules below.  Any weapn that 
   takes up x.5 critical hit locations can fit another .5 critical hit 
   location item with one of its lines.  Example: An LBX-15 takes up 8.5 
   critical hit locations.  On one of the lines a small laser can share the 
   same line as one of the 9 LBX-15 lines.  Another example would be where a 
   CRM/3 has 1.5 tons of ammo assigned to it.  The first line would be 
   "CRM/3," the second would read "CRM/3 & 1/2 ton ammo," and the last line 
   would read "1 ton CRM/3 ammo." 	
   
   	2) The .5 Target Heat means that for every 2 medium lasers that 
   hit, the target receives 1 point of heat.  Refer to the Target Heat rules 
   found below.
   
   	3) The large laser and variants had their weights reduced to make 
   them more competitive with other weapons.  It seemed that the large laser 
   was not worth the weight of the weapon, therefore the weight is reduced on 
   this weapons list.
   
   	4) These two weapons seemed like natural outgrowthes of the 
   standard PPC.  The pulse PPC's also seemed like they should belong somehow. 
   Their only special rule is that there is a -1 to hit for them as opposed to 
   the -2 for the pulse lasers.
   
   	5) The Electrical Discharge Cannon is an energy weapon designed 
   around the principle of discharging huge amounts of electrical energy into 
   the target.  For the EDC to fire, a discharge coil is needed.  As this coil 
   burns out everytime the weapon fires, the weapon is designed to have a new 
   coil placed in the receptacle and the burned out one cycled out in a way 
   similar to an autocannon reload system.  Thus in the listing for the weapon 
   under ammunition the number gives how many coils.
   		A)  The "ammunition" for the EDC is not truly ammo.  When 
   	it is hit it does not explode.
   		B)  The EDC will cause collateral damage to units in water 
   	hexes.  If the EDC hits a target in or above (like hovercraft or 
   	LAM at 1 elevation) water the EDC does full damage to all targets 
   	in that hex.  Any units in or above water 1 hex away will receive 
   	full damage minus 5 points.  Any units in or above water 2 hexes 
   	away will receive full damage minus 10 points of damage.  Any unit 
   	3 or more hexes away is safe from collateral damage.
   
   	6)  The weights of the lighter autocannons were lowered because 
   they were perceived to be to heavy for them to be worth taking.  The 
   benefits of low heat and high range were not enough to counter the drawbacks
   of very high weight and possibility of ammo explosions.  It got to the point 
   that all A/C 2 through A/C 10 were replaced with different weapons due to 
   their attractiveness.  Therefore the weights of some of the A/C were 
   reduced.
   
   	7) The weights of the LBX autocannons were made higher than the 
   standard models to compensate for the fact that they were better than 
   standard autocannons.  Granted, these changes to the various autocannons 
   are not historical, but then again, who plays historically?
   
   	8) The Flamer and the Flame Thrower are modified to make them more 
   worth their weight.  In addition to doing their damage, these weapons incur 
   "incindiery" target heat upon their target.  The target heat from these 
   weapons will remain on the target for 3 turns.  Any additional target 
   heat beyond 10 points carries over for an additional 3 turns.  Refer to the 
   target heat rules below.
   
   	9) The coolant cannon is "weapon" that does no damage and is 
   designed to cool down mech in one of two methods.  The first is to take any 
   flame/inferno heat that is sticking to the target and eliminate it.  Any 
   flame/inferno heat fired upon the target after it has been cooled will act 
   normally.  This first method of cooling will take precedence over the 
   second method.  (This first method of "attack" is similar to blowing out a 
   candle or using a fire extinguisher to put out a fire.)
   		The second method of "attack" for a coolant cannon is to 
   eliminate 10 points of heat generated that turn by the target.  This can be 
   done only if the target has no flame/inferno target heat generating at the 
   time.  If the target has less than 10 points of flame/inferno heat 
   generateing at the time, for example 6 points, the coolant cannon would 
   eliminate the 6 points of fame/inferno heat and reduce the heat generated 
   by the target by 4.  In general terms, the coolant cannon does -10 points 
   of target heat.  It will eliminate up to 10 points of flame/inferno heat.  
   Any remaining coolant cannon "damage" will reduce that turns heat output 
   for the target by the remaining amount.
   		Coolant cannons can only be mounted on ground vehicles 
   since the volume of the coolant is too large to mount on a battlemech.  If 
   rules are made such that a coolant cannon were to take up crits, the number 
   is listed in parentheses.
   
   	10) Bombardment Range Missiles (BRM)  BRM's are an extreme range 
   weapon designed to saturate an area with warheads.  It is a rather erratic 
   weapon in its performance, but this is compensated for by its long range.
   		A) BRM's do not roll on the missile hit chart to determine 
   	the number of missiles that hit.  Instead, a number of D6 are rolled to 
   	determine the number that hit.  When firing at Extreme Range a 
   	number of D6-1 are rolled and the number of D3 when firing at 
   	Maximum range.
   		B) The damage that a BRM does is distributed as an LRM would 
   	would.  Every 5 points of damage is rolled for.
   		C) If Artemis is tied in to a BRM, an extra D6 is rolled to 
   	determine the number of missiles that hit.  If the number of missiles 
   	that would hit is greater than the rating of the launcher, then simply
   	all of the missiles hit.     
   		D) BRM's may indirect fire just as LRM's can.
   
   	11) Tactical Support Missiles (TSM)  TSM's are an area effect, mech 
   mounted, reloadable weapon system based loosely on the LRM.  It utilizes an 
   airburst schrapnel charge to spread its damage over an area.
   		A) TSM's do 5 points of damage to any units in the target hex 
   	and 2 points of damage to any units one hex away from the target 
   	hex.  (The 6 surrounding hexes)
   		B) Like artillery, TSM's attack hexes rather than units.  
   	The to hit roll is modified only by intervening terrain and the 
   	attacking unit's movement and condition, never by the movement or 
   	condition of units in the hex.
   		C) To determine the number of missiles that hit, roll on 
   	the Missile Hit Chart under the appropriate number.  (Obviously the 
   	TSM/1 is a hit or miss deal.)
   		D) Roll for scatter for any TSM's that did not hit their 
   	intended target hex.  Use the Artillery scatter method.  Roll each 
   	missile seperately.
   		E) The firing of TSM's cannot be modified or helped by the 
   	following systems: Artemis, AAR, GAR, NARC, TAG, or anything 
   	else that would improve the accuracy or damage of the missile.  
   	(This restriction does not apply to 2x cockpit mechs, C^3, or 
   	pilot/gunners that have an improved gunnery skill.) This reflects the 
   	fact that the TSM is a ballistic missile that air bursts over the 
   	target and cannot really be guided to the explosion point.  Another 
   	reason is because these things are nasty enough as they are! 
   		F)  When TSM ammunition explodes due to heat or critical 
   	hit each missile explodes for 7 points of damage.
   
   	12) MRM's (Medium Range Missiles)  Medium Range Missiles were 
   developed as support weapons that would have a longer range than SRM's but 
   shorter range than LRM's.	
   		A) To resolve a missile hit from an MRM, conduct it in a 
   	manner similar to an LRM except that MRM hit in groups of 3 as 
   	opposed to in groups of 5 as with LRM.
   		B) MRM can not be fired in indirect fire mode.  They are, 
   	except as noted previouslly, functionally similar to LRM.
   
   	13) CRM (Close Range Missiles) are an functionally similar to SRM's 
   except that they do 3 points of damage per missile that hits.
   
   	14) Inferno weapons.  The only changes from the Inferno rules as 
   listed on p.60 of _The Battletech Compendium_ are listed below. 
   		A) The max target heat that Infernos (of any kind) can deliver 
   	is 10 instead of 6.
   		B) Inferno/1 is based upon the TSM/1.  Use notes 11B, 11D, and 
   	11E for additional information.  The Inferno/1 delivers 5 target 
   	heat to anything in the target hex and 2 target heat to anything in 
   	the 6 immediately surrounding hexes.
   		C) While the Geneva Conventions and the rules may prohibit 
   	the use of incindiery weapons against infantry, we warmongers will 
   	not.  The number of men killed by an inferno attack is equal to the 
   	target heat inflicted.  
   
   	15) TAG Laser.  The TAG laser appeared to be too limited in scope 
   for your average warmonger.  To make the TAG laser more useful for its 
   weight it was decided to make it helpful for normal missile attacks in 
   addition to your average Arrow IV attack.  In addition to its normal 
   functions, the TAG laser can be used by a mech about to make a missile 
   attack against a target.  Fire the TAG laser first.  If it hits then any 
   *one* missile launcher may be fired at that target with a to hit modifier 
   of -1 since the TAG laser has a more definate lock on the target and feeds 
   its information to the selected missile launcher.  Multiple TAG lasers are 
   needed for multiple launcher assists and can only assist in missile shots 
   at the TAGed target. TAG can be combined with any missile launcher or 
   targeting enhancement.  TAG is useless with Thunder and Swarm munitions.  
   There is no additional cost to launchers or munitions to use TAG.  The C^3 
   system's capability to emulate TAG does not get the -1 to hit missile 
   bonus.
   
   	16)  NARC Pods.  The NARC as presented in the rules is, well, to 
   put it bluntly, pretty wimpy.  Here are the modifications suggested:
   		A)  Any missile equipped attack against a NARCed target 
   	has a -1 to hit and a +2 on the missile chart instead of just the 
   	+2 to missile hit chart modifier as presented in the rules 
   	originally.
   		B)  Record the hit location of where the NARC beacon will 
   	hit.  Once that location has been destroyed (Mech arm destroyed or 
   	blown off) then the NARC beacon is lost also.
   		C)  NARC and Artemis are still incompatible.
   		D)  The idea of special NARC missiles has been discarded.  
   	All normal missiles and those not specifically mentioned are "NARC 
   	compatible."
   
   	17) Artemis.  The only change to the Artemis is that Artemis 
   assisted BRM attacks get an additional D6 (D6-1, D3) to determine the 
   number of missiles that hit.
   
   	18) Anti-Missile System (AMS) Ammunition, Anti-Missile Laser (AML), 
   and Pulse Anti-Missile Laser (PAML)
   	  Was somebody smoking dope at FASA and not invite us?  Why does 
   the original rules state that AMS get only 12 reloads?  Especially if you 
   can expend all 12 in one shot?  And treat an AMS ammo hit as machine gun ammo? 
   Hello?  Is this thing on?
   		A)  Increase AMS ammunition to 50 shots per ton.  Even that 
   	is being mean.  
   		B)  The Anti Missile Laser is an energy weapon based 
   	version of the AMS.  It operates exactly like an AMS except that 
   	there is no ammunition to go with the weapon.  After the AML has 
   	been used roll 2D6.  If a two is rolled then the focusing mechanism 
   	has been overstressed and has broken.  The AML cannot be used until 
   	repaired.
   		C)  The Pulse Anti-Missile Laser is a pulse energy weapon 
   	based version of the AMS.  It operates exactly like an AML except 
   	that the PAML can engage twice per turn and the heat generated is 
   	1D6 per engaging.  After each time that the PAML is engaged roll 
   	2D6, if a two is rolled the PAML's focusing device is damaged.  
   	This will knock out the PAML until repaired.  If the PAML is 
   	damaged on it's first use of the turn then it cannot be used again, 
   	that turn or for the rest of the game.
   
   	19) Icewind.  The Icewind system is not an offensive weapon but a 
   defensive heat reducing system.  It is a bottle of non-flammable gas in 
   liquid state under compression.  When the ambiant temperature of the mech 
   reaches a preset level the easy melt cap of the bottle melts, releasing a 
   cold cloud of vapor into the interior of the mech, cooling the mech off.
   		A)  For every Icewind installed put a line on the heat 
   	scale.  This represents the setting of the Icewind.  If multiple 
   	Icewinds are mounted settings can be put on the same line. 
   		B)  Resolve the heat buildup for the mech normally.  If the 
   	final heat level for that turn is above the rating of the 
   	Icewind(s) then each Icewind that it is above releases.  For each 
   	Icewind that releases reduce the heat scale by 4 points.  That is 
   	the final heat level for the mech for that turn.
   		C)  Once an Icewind has gone off it is gone for the game.  
   	In a campaign an Icewind can be reloaded same as doing a quick 
   	reload yet requires a coolant truck.
   
   	20)  Anti Aircraft Radar (AAR)  AAR is a special targeting system 
   that is used against any aerial target (Aerospace fighters, conventional 
   fighters, VTOL, and LAM in LAM mode but not mechs that are simply jumping.)
   		A)  For any attacks that are made against aerial targets 
   	that utilize AAR the movement to hit modifiers are halved.  
   	Example:  A mech with AAR that is running (+2 to hit) is trying to 
   	fire on a VTOL flying 11 hexes (+5 to hit).  The total modifier to 
   	hit is +7.  Since the mech is using AAR the total movement based to 
   	hit modifier is +3.5 which is rounded up to +4. 
   		B)  AAR does not compensate for any other to hit modifiers 
   	that might accumulate, such as heat, terrain, or pilot.
   		C)  AAR may be used by the affected targets listed in 
   	parenthesis above against other such targets.  AAR may not be used 
   	against targets on the ground.
   		D)  AAR does not have to be linked to all weapons on a 
   	mech/vehicle.  If AAR is linked to only certain weapons then only 
   	those weapons get the benefits of the AAR.
   		E)  AAR weighs 1 ton for every 5 tons of weapons that it is 
   	tied into.  It takes up one critical for every ton of weight.
   		F)  Once the AAR has taken one critical it is destroyed.  
   	The AAR cannot be mounted in the legs.
   		G)  Guardian ECM nullifies the capabilities of AAR if the 
   	defender has Guardian or the line of sight from the AAR using unit 
   	to the defender passes within 6 hexes of an enemy AAR.
   
   	21)  Ground Attack Radar (GAR) Ground Attack Radar is in game terms 
   functionally similar to AAR except that it can only be used by aerial 
   targets to fire upon ground targets.  (GAR is the AAR that *can* be used 
   against targets on the ground as mentioned in rule 19C.)  
   		A)  GAR can not be used to help in the fire of strafing 
   	runs.  GAR is used for firing upon individual targets while 
   	strafing saturates an area with fire.
   		B)  GAR can not be used by ground mechs/vehicles for use 
   	against other ground targets.  The only way for LAM to use 
   	GAR is for them to be flying in either LAM or fighter mode.  VTOLs 
   	or any other flying craft that has landed may not use GAR.
   		C)  For any attacks that are made against ground targets 
   	that utilize GAR the movement to hit modifiers are halved.  
   	Example:  A LAM in Airmech mode with GAR that is jumping (+3 to hit) 
   	is trying to fire on a mech running 6 hexes (+2 to hit).  The total 
   	modifier to hit is +5.  Since the LAM is using GAR the total movement 
   	based to hit modifier is +2.5 which is rounded up to +3. 
   		D)  GAR does not compensate for any other to hit modifiers 
   	that might accumulate, such as heat, terrain, or pilot.
   		E)  GAR does not have to be linked to all weapons on a 
   	mech/vehicle.  If GAR is linked to only certain weapons then only 
   	those weapons get the benefits of the AAR.
   		F)  GAR weighs 1 ton for every 5 tons of weapons that it is 
   	tied into.  It takes up one critical for every ton of weight.
   		G)  Once the AAR has taken one critical it is destroyed.  
   	The AAR cannot be mounted in the legs.
   		H)  Guardian ECM nullifies the capabilities of AAR if the 
   	defender has Guardian or the line of sight from the AAR using unit 
   	to the defender passes within 6 hexes of an enemy AAR.
   
   	22)  Infantry Pods are special cargo carriers that come with one 
   platoon of jump infantry that are mounted on mechs. The criticals that the 
   pods take represent special internal bracing for seating and life support 
   equipment.  The infantry take no damage from weapons hits to the mech 
   because they are in an armored pod, as opposed to hanging on the sides of 
   the mech.  The pod and/or exit doors are normally mounted/facing the back 
   or the top of the mech.  While these pods tend to grossly distort the 
   normal profile of the mech they do not make it any easier to target.
   		A)  The jump infantry may dismount from the mech as per 
   	regular infantry except that the mech does not need to expend 1mp.  
   	Remounting is per regular rules.  Remember that infantry may not 
   	move or fire the turn that they dismount.  The reaon that 1mp does 
   	not have to be expended is because the infantry can jump down and 
   	land safely while the mech is moving.
   		B)  The pods must be mounted in the torsos, head, or arms.  
   	If mounted in the arms the mech may not make make any physical 
   	attacks involving the arms while infantry are in their pod(s).  If 
   	the head or arm is "blown off" with 3 critical hits and the 
   	infantry are still in their pod(s) they suffer 2D6 casualties.
   		C)  When the Infantry Pod has suffered 1 critical hit any 
   	infantry still in the pods suffer 1D6 casualties and 1 casualty when 
   	the heat scale is 15-25 and 2 when it is 25+.  Double this number if 
   	the Infantry Pod has suffered 2 critical hits.  On the second 
   	critical hit 2D6 remaining infantry are destroyed.  Any infantry 
   	in the pod when it suffers its third critical hit are destroyed.
   		D)  The platoon of jump infantry comes free with the pod 
   	and does not have to be payed for in any manner.
   	
   	23)  Battlearmor Infantry Pods (BAIP) are just like Infantry Pods 
   except that they carry one star (5 man team) of Battlearmor.  The rules 
   below will either refer you to the rules above or modify it.  These rules 
   are different and should not be confused with the *Mechanized Battlearmor* 
   rules on p.44-45 of _The Battletech Compendium_.
   		A)  Refer to note 22A.
   		B)  Same as note 22B except that when the location is 
   	"blown off" each trooper suffers 1D6 damage.
   		C)  When this type of infantry pod suffers 1 critical hit 
   	each trooper takes 1D6 points of damage.  On the second critical 
   	hit all remaining troopers are destroyed.  Battlearmor suffer no 
   	damage for excessive heat.
   		D)  When a BAIP is mounted on the mech it does not come 
   	with the Battle armor troops free.  Each point of Battle Armor 
   	counts as a 5 ton mech and most be "bought" as such.  They may be 
   	mounted in the BAIP at the start of the game.
   
   	24)  Self Destruct is a system for voluntarily making your mech 
   into a small ultrahot ball of thermal destruction.  It takes the reactor 
   fuel and dumps it into the reactor, after which the magnetic bottle is 
   allowed to decay rapidly.  The end result is a metallic vapor where the 
   mech used to be and blast marks for meters!!!
   		A)  The Self Destruct Device weighs one ton and takes up 
   	one critical hit location which must be located in one of the torsos.
   		B)  When activated the device destroys the mech and 
   	anything in the same hex.  Anything 1 hex away takes damage equal 
   	to the engine rating divided by 15.  If the mech is a 2x engine mech 
   	then the engine rating used is the sum of the 2 engine ratings.  If 
   	one of the engines has been destroyed due to damage then the total 
   	engine rating is based upon the one operating engine.
   		C)  The device is activated during the weapons attack phase 
   	as if it were a weapon.  No weapons may be fired if the device is 
   	to be activated.
   		D)  Units taking damage take target heat equal to 1/2 the 
   	damage taken, round down.  This target heat lasts for that turn 
   	only, similar to energy weapon target heat.
   		E)  Units that self destruct are destroyed and count 
   	towards the victory of the enemy.   
   		F)  It is assumed that the pilot(s) give themselves enough 
   	time to eject before the explosion.  Those of us that created these 
   	rules really don't care, but some of you might.  After all, life is 
   	cheap, mechs aren't.
   
   		TARGET	HEAT  RULES
   
   	These rules were created to simulate the fact that when certain 
   weapons hit they are going to create additional heat upon their target.  
   Certain weapons are designed for this task while others create target heat 
   do to the huge energy conversion of their damage.
   	The types of weapons that create target heat can be divided up into 
   two general groups:  energy weapons and incindiery weapons.  These two 
   weapons groups are treated seperately within these rules.  The target heat 
   that a weapon inflicts upon a target is listed in the TAR/HEAT column of 
   the weapons damage chart.  Incindiery weapons are marked with an (I).
   
   	TARGET HEAT FROM ENERGY WEAPONS:  When an energy weapon hits a 
   target it will recieve target heat.  The heat that the target recieves 
   affects it only for the turn that the weapon hit.  The target heat that a 
   target recieves is treated as heat generated by the mech that turn.  There 
   is no limit to the amount of energy weapon target heat that a unit can 
   receive.
   	EXAMPLE:  During turn 1 a mech has walked (+1 heat), fired 2 PPC 
   (+20 heat), and was hit by a PPC and 2 medium lasers (+3 heat).  Its heat 
   sinks must dissipate 24 heat that turn.  The next turn the same mech runs 
   (+2 heat), fires 2 PPC (+20 heat), and is hit by, among other weapons, 1 
   large laser and 3 medium lasers (+2.5 heat, rounded down to 2).  This turn 
   the mech must dissipate 24 heat.  Notice that none of the energy weapon 
   target heat from turn 1 did not carry over to the next turn.
   
   	TARGET HEAT FROM INCINDIERY WEAPONS:  Incindiery weapons are 
   generally inferno launchers and flamers/flamethrowers.  They are marked on 
   the weapons damage chart in the TAR/HEAT column with an (I).  Incindiery 
   weapon target heat is described on p.60 of _The Battletech Compendium_ 
   under the heading of Infernos.  The only additions to those rules is: 
   the max heat that a target can receive is 10 instead of 6, Inferno 
   Launchers have to roll to determine the number of missiles that explode 
   close enough to the target to generate target heat, and flamers/ 
   flamethrowers are considered in the same class as inferno launchers.
   
   			WEAPON  BANKING  RULES
   
   	Weapons can be mounted in pairs on the same weapon mount.  This is 
   known as "banking."  
   	A)  Banked weapons must be mounted in the same area of the 
   mech/vehicle.  For mechs both weapons must be completely in the hit 
   location area.  Example:  A pair of A/C 20's could not be banked on a mech 
   since 2 of them would not fit in any one hit location, be it a torso or an 
   arm.  A pair of Heavy PPC could be banked in an arm since it has 8 critical 
   locations and 2 HPPC would take up 8 critical slots.  The above pair of A/C 
   20's could be banked in the turret of a tank, but not on a mech. Remember 
   that Lower Arm and Hand actutors can be removed for more criticals.
   	B)  The weapons banked must be of the exact same type.  Exception:  
   Missile launchers of the same type but of different size can be banked.  
   	C)  Any weapon except for artillery weapons can be banked. 
   	D)  Banked weapons can fire together as one weapon.  For this only 
   one to hit roll is made.  If the bank hits then both weapons hit in the 
   same location.  If the to hit roll is missed then both weapons miss.  
   Banked weapons do not have to be fired as a bank, they may be fired 
   independently.
   	E)  Non-Energy weapons that are fired banked must both use the same 
   type of ammunition.  Different types of alternate ammunitions cannot be 
   used.  
   	F)  two .5 critical space weapons in the same critical slot are 
   automatically counted as being banked.  For other weapons to be counted as 
   banked there must be some discernable mark connecting the two weapons.
   	G)  If one banked weapon is destroyed there is no effect upon the 
   other weapon.  It may only fired independently though, and not banked with 
   another weapon.
   
   		ALTERNATE  AMMUNITIONS  FOR  WEAPONS
   
   	This section is a listing of the various types of different 
   munitions that can be used for weapons.  The basic format will be:
   WEAPON:  This will tell what weapon the ammo may be used for.
   DESCRIPTION:  This will give a description plus necessary special rules.
   ADVANTAGES:  Self explanatory
   DISADVANTAGES:  Self explanatory
   
   	Note:  All of the Alternate Ammunitions must be used as reloads in 
   full or half ton increments.  A part of a ton of one type of ammunition 
   cannot be mixed with a complementary part of a ton of another type.  Be 
   prepared that some 20th Century acronyms are used using different words.  
   This reflects that the names will change to reflect changing technology.  
   Other types use a name from history to represent what they are loosely 
   based upon.  All ammunition types must be specified before the start of the 
   game.  Any unspecified reloads are assumed to be standard.
   
   Cannister Shot Ammunition
   	WEAPON: Rail Gun, Rail Cannon, Gauss Rifle, and Gauss Cannon
   	DESCRIPTION:  Cannister Shot is where the standard round slug is 
   replaced with a container of submunitions.  The net effect is that the 
   damage is spread all over the target hit.  Cannister is a less volatile 
   (and less effective) version of Silver Bullet ammunition.
   	ADVANTAGES:  When a target has been it with Cannister Shot roll on 
   the standard Missile Hit Chart under the column for the damage that the 
   weapon does.  This is the amount of damage that the weapon does.  Roll for 
   hit location for each point of damage (as per the LB-X autocannon cluster 
   munitions.)
   	DISADVANTAGES: Due to the size and shape of the Cannister shot 
   round Gauss Cannons only get 10 shots per ton of reloads, the Gauss Rifle 6, 
   and the Gauss Cannon 3 shots per ton.
   
   Chain Shot Ammunition
   	WEAPON: Rail Gun, Rail Cannon, Gauss Rifle, and Gauss Cannon
   	DESCRIPTION:  Chain Shot takes a round of shot and replaces it with 
   2 hollow hemispheres connected by a heavy chain.  The tendency for the 
   chain to wrap around part of a mech creates problems for the pilot of the 
   target mech.  The reduced volume of the shot reduces the damage done.
   	Take the base damage for the weapon firing and divide it by 3.  
   This is the damage that each of the 2 halves will do.  When the weapon hits 
   each of the halves will hit a potentially different hit location.  To 
   represent the wrapping possibility of the chain the hit location procedure 
   is modified.  For each half roll a D6 to represent the direction that the 
   half will hit from.  A roll of 1 means damage is rolled on the front, 2 
   goes to the right side front (Roll on the right side hit location table, 
   torso damage goes on the front), 3 to the right side rear, 4 to the rear, 
   5 to the left side rear, and 6 rolls on the left side front.  Once the 
   direction has been determined roll 2D6 for location as per normal rules.
   	ADVANTAGES:  When hit the target must make a piloting skill roll 
   with a +2 penalty, +4 if both halves hit the legs.  If this is failed then 
   the target mech falls.  Any piloting skill rolls after being hit by chain 
   shot are at a +1 penalty until the mech expends 1 MP to free itself of the 
   chain.  Each chain shot that accumulates gives an additional +1 penalty to 
   the Piloting Skill Roll.  Example:  A mech has been hit by 3 chain shots in 
   one turn.  Trying to get back up will require a piloting skill roll with a 
   +3 penalty due to the 3 chain shots hanging fom it.  After getting back up 
   the mech expends 2 MP to free itself of 2 chain shots.  From here the mech 
   makes piloting skill rolls with a +1 penalty due to the remaining chain 
   shot hanging from it.
   	DISADVANTAGES:  Since the Chain Shot is very unpredictable in its 
   ballistic characteristics there is a +2 to hit penalty.  Vehicles do not 
   have to make a piloting skill roll when first hit, but still have the 
   piloting skill roll penalties just as mechs.
   
   Nested Slug Ammunition
   	WEAPON: Rail Cannon, Gauss Rifle, and Gauss Cannon
   	DESCRIPTION:  Nested Slug Ammunition uses a nested set of Rail Gun 
   rounds instead of one large round.  It distributes the damage over several 
   areas.  The round still does full damage, it just divides it over 2, 3, or 
   4 areas.
   	ADVANTAGES:  NS ammo divides the damage into groups of 5 points.  
   Roll for damage location for the 2 or 3 groups of 5 damage points 
   seperately.
   	DISADVANTAGES: Due to the size and shape of the NS round Gauss 
   Cannons only get 10 shots per ton of reloads, the Gauss Rifle 6, and the 
   Gauss Cannon 3 shots per ton.
   
   Silver Bullet Ammunition
   	WEAPON: Rail Gun, Rail Cannon, Gauss Rifle, Gauss Cannon
   	DESCRIPTION:  Silver Bullet ammo is a single round with an 
   explosive charge in the center.  This charge is used to explode the round 
   near its target.  If a hit is made using SB ammo roll to determine the 
   amount of damage on the 5, 10, 15, or 20 column of the missile hit chart.
   Distribute each point of damage individually (like an LBX autocannon 
   round).
   	ADVANTAGES:  When firing SB ammo there is a -1 to hit modifier.
   	DISADVANTAGES:  In addition to the weapon doing damage when hit as 
   per normal rules the ammo will explode when hit by a critical hit or 
   exploding due to heat.  When exploding there will be 5, 10, 15, or 20 
   points of damage per round exploded, explosion strength per round based 
   upon original damage value of weapon.
   
   Smart Rock Ammunition
   	WEAPON: Rail Gun, Rail Cannon, Gauss Rifle, Gauss Cannon
   	DESCRIPTION:  Smart Rocks replace some of the shot mass with a 
   small guidance system and compressed gas steering rockets.
   	ADVANTAGES: There is a -1 to hit bonus when firing at medium 
   range, a -2 to hit when firing at long range, -3 to hit at extreme range 
   and -4 to hit at maximum range with Smart Rocks.
   	DISADVANTAGES:  When firing smart rocks there is a +1 additional to 
   hit modifier when firing inside minimum range.  Weapon damage is reduced  
   also.  Rail Guns score 2 points of damage, Rail Cannons score 5, Gauss Rifles 
   score 7 points, and Gauss Cannons score 10 points when firing Smart Rocks.
   
   Armor Peircing Discarding Sabot (APDS) Ammunition
   	WEAPON: Auto cannons, LB-X autocannons, Ultra auto cannons
   	DESCRIPTION:  APDS ammo replaces the normal round with a smaller, 
   high velocity, high density penetrator round inside a sabot.
   	ADVANTAGES:  APDS ammo does some internal damage when the round 
   hits.  Refer to the chart below.
   
   	A/C or LBX	Armor Damage	Internal Damage
   	----------	------------	---------------
   	    2		     1			1
   	    5		     3			2
   	    10		     7			3
   	    15		    10			5
   	    20		    13			7
   
   	DISADVANTAGES:  The APDS round is a high compression round that 
   autocannons have trouble handling.  Whenever APDS rounds are fired roll a 
   second 2D6 for a stress check.  If a 2 or a 3 is rolled the autocannon has 
   broken some linkage on it.  That autocannon may still fire but has a +2 to 
   hit penalty.  If the autocannon continues to fire APDS roll a stress check 
   with a 2, 3, 4, or 5 as a failure.  If the autocannon fails this second 
   check it is considered destroyed.  Autocannon Ultras that fire 2 APDS 
   rounds roll stress checks twice.  LB-X Autocannons get a -1 bonus on the 
   stress check roll.   When APDS ammo takes a critical hit or explodes the 
   internal damage produced is twice that for normal exploding ammo.
   
   Bolt Thrower (BT) Ammunition
   	WEAPON: Auto Cannons, LB-X Cannons, Ultra auto cannons
   	DESCRIPTION:  Bolt Thrower ammunition is a standard auto cannon 
   round that has roughly half the round's mass removed to accomadate a solid 
   fuel propellent.  This propellent increases the range of the round 
   significantly.
   	ADVANTAGES:  When using Bolt Thrower ammo the classes of 
   autocannons have these ranges:
   
   	Class	Short	Medium	Long	Extreme	 Maximum	Damage
   	-----	-----	------	----	-------	 -------	------
   	  2	1-12	13-24	25-36	 37-48	  49-60		   1
   	  5	1-9	10-18	19-27	 28-36	  37-45		   3
   	 10	1-8	 9-16	17-24	 25-32	  33-40		   5
   	 15	1-6	 7-12	13-18	 19-24	  25-30		   8
   	 20	1-5	 6-10	11-15	 16-20	  21-25		  10
   
   		NOTE:  Minimum Ranges are not affected.
   	DISADVANTAGES:  As can be seen from the table above the damage 
   produced is 50% of the normal autocannon round due to the reduction in 
   mass.
   
   Cluster Ammunition:
   	WEAPON: LB-X Autocannons
   	DESCRIPTION:  Cluster Ammunition is the standard cluster round that 
   the LB-X autocannons use as presented on p.120 in _The Battletech 
   Compendium_.
   	ADVANTAGES:  As per the rules.
   	DISADVANTAGES:  Only LB-X autocannons can use these rounds.
   
   Flechette Ammunition:
   	WEAPON: LB-X Autocannons
   	DESCRIPTION:  Flechette Ammunition is similar to Cluster ammunition 
   except that it is specially designed for taking out infantry, battlearmor, 
   and clearing trees.
   	ADVANTAGES:  Flechette Ammunition does double normal damage versus 
   infantry and battlearmor.  Flechette retains the -1 to hit bonus of LB-X 
   Cluster rounds.  When firing LB10X or bigger with Flechette rounds to clear 
   heavy woods instead of reducing the heavy woods to a light woods as per the 
   rules these rounds will reduce them to a rough hex.
   	DISADVANTAGES:  When firing this ammunition versus mechs or 
   vehicles apply a -2 penalty to the roll on the Missile Hit Chart to determine 
   the amount of damage.  Any rolls below 2 are treated as a 2.
   
   HEAP Ammunition:
   	WEAPON: Auto Cannons, LB-X Cannons, Ultra auto cannons
   	DESCRIPTION:  High Explosive Armor Piercing rounds use a shaped 
   charge chemical warhead that burns through the armor to produce armor and 
   internal structure damage.
   	ADVANTAGES:  HEAP rounds do some internal damage and target heat in 
   addition to the armor damage.  Refer to the chart below.
   
   A/C or LBX	Armor Dam.	Internal Dam.	Target Heat
   ----------	----------	-------------	-----------	
       2		     1			1	     1
       5		     3			1	     2
       10		     6			2	     3
       15		     9			3	     4
       20		    12			4	     5
   	 
   	DISADVANTAGES:  HEAP rounds use a directional charge to do their 
   damage.  If the round(s) hit at the wrong angle then the blast is 
   ineffective.  To represent this these rounds have a +1 to hit penalty.  
   Against Level 1 Ceramo-Steel armor HEAP rounds do no target heat on the 
   target and against Level 2 Ceramo-Steel armor HEAP rounds do only armor 
   damage, no Internal or Target Heat damage.  Due to the slow speed of these 
   rounds Reactive Armor can affect them.  Apply the 1/2 damage rule from 
   Reactive Armor to these rounds also when fired against a target with 
   Reactive Armor.
   
   Bangalor Missiles
    	WEAPON: MRM, TSM, LRM, BRM
   	DESCRIPTION:  Bangalor missiles have for a warhead several line 
   charges acting as Bangalor Torpedoes (an Army engineer obstacle clearing 
   charge).  These line charges also have landing spikes that allow them to 
   land without bouncing or to stick to the side of buildings.
   	ADVANTAGES:  Bangalor missiles can do either of two things:
   		Minefield clearing: Bangalor missiles can be used to attack 
   mined hexes of any type.  Bangalor missiles will reduce the attack strength 
   of a mined hex by the number of missiles/attack strength per hex in the attack. 
   EXAMPLE:  A hex that has been mined by a 20 point FASCAM is attacked by 5 
   point Bangalor attack.  Assuming that the attack hits the mined hex will have 
   its attack strength reduced by 5 down to 15.  
   	Preset conventional minefields (as per p.60-61 of _The Battletech 
   Compendium_) have an attack strength of 6 and Command Detonated hexes have a 
   strength of 10 (assuming the hex is attacked blindly in hopes that it is 
   mined).  Vibrabomb hexes that are attacked have their sensitivity rating 
   lowered by the Bangalor missile attack strength.  When the rating reaches 0 
   the vibrabomb detonates as if tripped.
   		Building/fortification destruction:  Bangalor missiles do 
   double damage against buildings or any structure that has its strength 
   listed in CF.
   	DISADVANTAGES:  Bangalor missiles do no damage against mechs, 
   vehicles, or infantry.  TAG, Artemis, and NARC work only when firing 
   Bangalors against buildings.
   
   FASCAM Missiles, FASCAM Artillery Rounds
   	WEAPON:	MRM, TSM, LRM, BRM, All Artillery Weapons
   	DESCRIPTION:  FASCAM Missiles and FASCAM Artillery Rounds deliver 
   Field Artillery SCatterable fAmily of Mines.  Each warhead contains an even 
   mix of anti-vehicle and anti-personnel mines.
   	ADVANTAGES:  FASCAM missiles are treated just like Thunder LRM as 
   described on p.121 of _The Battletech Compendium_.  FASCAM Artillery Rounds 
   deliver minefields over an area of 7 hexes: the target hex and the 6 
   surrounding.  FASCAM Artillery Rounds deliver minefields in strengths equal 
   to the damage that they would do normally.  EXAMPLE:  A Long Tom is firing 
   a FASCAM shell.  When the shell lands the hex hit will have a 20 point 
   minefield and each of the 6 surrounding hexes will have a 10 point 
   minefield.  FASCAM TSM are handled in a manner similar to FASCAM Artillery 
   Rounds except that the attack values are 5/2 per missile that lands in the 
   target hex.  
   	DISADVANTAGES:  The number of reloads per ton is half that for 
   normal missiles/artillery rounds.  FASCAM missiles are not affected by TAG, 
   Artemis, or NARC.
   
   Fuel-Air Explosive (FAE) Missiles
   	WEAPON: TSM
   	DESCRIPTION:  FAE missiles replace the standard explosive charges 
   of TSM missiles with a Thermite ignited canister of hydrocarbon fuel.  The 
   resulting explosion produces armor damage and target heat.
   	ADVANTAGES:  Each FAE missile does 3 points of damage/ 2 points 
   of incindiery target heat to the target hex and 1 point of damage/ 1 point 
   of incindiery target heat to the 6 surrounding hexes.  The incindiery 
   target heat lasts for 3 turns as per the Inferno rules.
   	DISADVANTAGES:  FAE missiles use the inferno rules concerning 
   checking for ammo explosion due to heat.  If FAE missile ammunition does 
   explode due to heat or critical hit each missile explodes for 10 points of 
   damage.
   
   Smoke Missiles
   	WEAPON: TSM
   	DESCRIPTION:  Smoke Missiles are designed to fill the target hex 
   and adjacent hexes with smoke.
   	ADVANTAGES:  Each missile will produce a 1 elevation high 
   smoke cloud in the target hex and the 6 adjacent hexes that lasts for 1 
   turn for each missile that hits that hex.
   	DISADVANTAGES:  These missiles do no damage to any unit in the 
   target hexes.  
   
   Swarm Missiles
   	WEAPON: MRM, LRM, BRM
   	DESCRIPTION:  Swarm missiles are special missiles using hundreds of 
   submunitions able to saturate an area.
   	ADVANTAGES:  Swarm missiles are used just as the description on 
   p.121 of _The Battletech Compendium_ for Swarm LRMs.  For the BRM to 
   determine the number of missiles that hit a secondary target use a D6 for 
   every 6 missiles remaining, disregarding remaining portions of 6. 
   	DISADVANTAGES:  The number of reloads per ton is half that for 
   normal missiles.
   
   	TOW Missiles
   	WEAPONS: MRM, LRM, BRM
   	DESCRIPTION:  TOW Missiles are optically tracked, wire guided 
   missiles.  They operate in a manner similar to FTL missiles in that only 
   some of the missiles in a rack are wire guided while the rest follow.
   	ADVANTAGES:
   		-3 to hit if firing unit is stationary
   		-2 to hit if firing unit walked/cruised
   		-1 to hit if firing unit ran/flanked
   	addit.	-1 to hit if target is the only target to be attacked
   	DISADVANTAGES: Double all terrain to hit modifiers to reflect the 
   possibility of guide wire snap.  Above advantages are lost if firing unit 
   plans to enagage in close combat.  If the firing unit takes the advantages 
   then it may not make close combat attacks.  TOW missiles may not be fired 
   indirectly.  TOW missiles are not affected by NARC, Artemis, or Guardian.
   
   Follow The Leader (FTL) Missiles
   	WEAPONS: CRM, SRM, MRM, LRM, BRM
   	DESCRIPTION:  A modification to the guidance system of the missiles 
   has the majority of the missiles in a rack follow one missile.  
   	ADVANTAGES:  FTL missiles do not scatter their damage all over the 
   target but concentrate in one location.  Example:  If an LRM 20 rack fires 
   with FTL missiles and hits with 12 missiles the missiles will all hit on 
   one damage location area as opposed to 5 in one area, 5 in another, and 2 
   in a third.
   	DISADVANTAGES:  For FTL missiles to work the lead missile must be 
   one that hits.  Occasionally the targetting systems will follow the wrong 
   missile.  Firing with FTL missiles has a +2 Fire Modifier penalty. 
   
   Radar Guided Missiles (RG)
   	WEAPONS: CRM, SRM, MRM, LRM, BRM
   	DESCRIPTION:  The crude guidance system of the missile has been 
   replaced by a rough radar unit.  These guidance systems are not very good, 
   yet not overly affected by Guardian ECM.
   	ADVANTAGES:  
   		-1 to hit light mechs
   		-2 to hit medium mechs
   		-3 to hit heavy mechs
   		-4 to hit assault mechs
   	addit.	-1 to hit if target has been hit by NARC
   	DISADVANTAGES:  RG missiles when fired have any terrain to hit 
   modifiers doubled.  If the target is within 6 hexes of an enemy ECM unit 
   then the above modifiers are ignored and there is a +1 to hit.  If fired 
   indirect and miss their original target then roll another to hit for any 
   one randomly determined target within the 6 hexes immediately surrounding 
   the target.  If the to hit is made then the missiles hit that unit instead.
   Keep doing this procedure until an alternate target is hit or all possible 
   alternate targets within the 6 hexes have been missed.  (If any 
   clarifications are needed, the rules are similar to those involving Swarm 
   missiles except that only one target is hit.)  RG missiles are not affected 
   by Artemis or TAG lasers.   Multiply the number of reloads by .75 for Radar 
   Guided missiles.  RG missiles are not affected by Artemis.
   
   Radiation Seeking Missiles
   	WEAPONS: CRM, SRM, MRM, LRM, BRM
   	DESCRIPTION:  These missiles rely upon the emitions of special 
   electronics to home in on their target.  They are not very good if the 
   target does not have special electronic gear operating.
   	ADVANTAGES:  The missiles have a -2 to hit bonus against any units 
   that have active Guardian, Beagle, AAR, or GAR.  For targets that have a 
   NARC attached to them double the NARC bonuses.
   	DISADVANTAGES:  The missiles have a +2 to hit penalty against any 
   unit that does not have the above systems operating.
   
   Heat Seeking (HS) Missiles
   	WEAPONS: CRM, SRM
   	DESCRIPTION:  The HS warheads replace part of the explosive payload 
   with an infrared guidance system.
   	ADVANTAGES:  HS missiles receive a to hit bonus equal to the target 
   mech's Fire Modifier from heat buildup (if any) from the beginning of the 
   turn. In addition, if the target is receiving incindiery target heat from 
   Infernos or Flamers/Flame Throwers there is a to hit bonus equal to the 
   square of the target heat generated by the incidiery weapons, rounded down.  
   Example:  A mech has ben hit by a Flame Thrower and is receiving 5 incindiery 
   target heat.  The square root of 5 is 2.23 which is rounded down to 2.  Any 
   HS missiles fired at that mech get a to hit bonus of -2.  If the missiles score 
   critical hits then they are automatically heat sinks before anything else.
   	DISADVANTAGES:  HS SRM do 1 point while HS CRM do 2 points of damage 
   per missile that hits (as well as blow up for that amount in ammo 
   explosions.)  If the heat scale of the target mech is 0 then Heat Seeking 
   missiles have a +2 to hit. HS missiles are not affected by Artemis or NARC.
   
   Laser Guided Missiles (LGM)
   	WEAPONS: CRM, SRM, MRM
   	DESCRIPTION:  LGM require the guidance of a TAG laser to work 
   effectively.  When the TAG laser hits the target then there is a marked 
   increase in the percentage of missiles that hit.  When the TAG laser 
   misses then the probability of a hit decreases
   	ADVANTAGES:  LGM get a +3 on the Missile Hit Chart if the target is 
   TAGed by the firing mech.  The -1 to hit for each missile launcher tied 
   into a TAG laser as per the TAG laser note above still applies.  LGM that 
   are following a TAG beam do not get to hit penalties due to Chameleon 
   System.
   	DISADVANTAGES:  The announcement to fire LGM and TAG laser(s) must 
   be made and adhered to before any dice are rolled.  If LGM and TAG are 
   fired and no TAG laser hits then the LGM *must* be fired with a +2 to hit.  
   Only TAG laser(s) fired from the firing mech can TAG a target for LGM to 
   get their bonusses.  LGM can be fired without the intention to TAG the 
   target with a +2 to hit penalty.  
   
   Tandem Charge (TC) Warhead Missiles
   	WEAPONS: CRM, SRM
   	DESCRIPTION:  The TC warhead contains two shaped charge warheads 
   where one punches a hole in the armor allowing the second to damage the 
   internal structure.
   	ADVANTAGES:  CRM with TC warheads do 2 points of armor and one 
   point of internal structure damage per missile.  SRM with TC warheads do 1 
   point of armor and 1 point of internal damage.  If the area hit has no 
   armor then each missile that hits does 1 point of damage due to the 
   narrowness of the impact area.
   	DISADVANTAGES:  The number of reload shots per ton is multiplied by 
   .75, round down.  This represents the extra room required to hold the 
   larger warheads.  For ammo explosions, treat each TC CRM as having a 4 
   point warhead and each TC SRM as having a 3 point warhead.  TC warhead 
   internal damage against its target roll to score critical hits on the 
   Critical Hits Effects table with a -3 modifier.  (TC warheads score only 
   1 critical on a roll of 11 or 12.)
   
   Beehive Artillery Shells
   	WEAPONS:  Long Tom, Sniper, Thumper
   	DESCRIPTION:  These shells are effectively huge shotgun shells used 
   to fire directly upon approaching enemy.  They are primarily used as a last 
   ditch weapon to beat back unwanted interlopers, making use of this shell 
   rare.  Under normal circumstances a gun train might have 1 ton per gun of 
   reloads.  On rare occasions when artillery guns are expected to be very 
   close to the fighting 2-3 tons of reloads per gun are carried.
   	ADVANTAGES:  These shells make the artillery guns act just like 
   LB-X autocannons.  Take the base damage of the gun (20 for Long Toms, 10 
   for Snipers, and 5 for Thumpers) and roll 2D6 under that number on the 
   Missile Hit chart *twice*.  These 2 values are added together to determine 
   the damage done.  Each point of damage is allocated seperately.  
   EXAMPLE: (The Shot from Hell) A Long Tom fires a Beehive Artillery round at 
   an approaching mech and hits.  Since the Long Tom does 20 points of base 
   damage it rolls under the 20 column of the Missile Hit Chart twice.  The 
   Long Tom miraculously rolls an 11 and a 12 doing 40 points of damage.  
   Somebody had more than just a bad hair day...
   	DISADVANTAGES:  The range of these rounds in hexes is equal to the 
   number of boards that the gun can fire normal rounds.  The base to hit 
   number is 9 regardless of range. 
   
   Copperhead Artillery Shells
   	WEAPONS:  Long Tom, Sniper, Thumper
   	DESCRIPTION:  These are missiles that are shot from the tube of the 
   gun towards the general area of impact.  In flight on the descent the 
   missiles rocket motor takes over and allows the missile to home in on a 
   TAGed target.
   	ADVANTAGES:  Follow the rules in the last three paragraphs of the 
   last column under the rules for "Arrow IV Missile Artillery System" on 
   p. 117 of _The Battletech Compendium_.  These rules apply to Copperhead 
   Artillery Shells.  The Long Tom Copperhead does 20 points of artillery 
   damage to the target and 5 points to any other unit in the hex.  The 
   Sniper Copperhead does 10 points of artillery damage to the target and 2 
   points to any other unit in the hex. The Thumper Copperhead does 5 points 
   of artillery damage to the target and 1 point to any other unit in the hex.
   	DISADVANTAGES:  These shells cannot be used as standard artillery 
   shells.  They must be used as TAG homing missiles.  They cannot carry any 
   special kind of warhead.
   
   Dam Buster Artillery Shells
   	WEAPONS:  Arrow IV, Bolt III, Dart II, Long Tom, Sniper, Thumper
   	DESCRIPTION:  These shells replace their normal high explosive 
   warheads with a concussionary charge.  These have the capability to clear 
   minefields by setting off the mines and to damage buildings better.  These 
   were first developed by a Long Tom gunner to destroy a dam that, with its 
   destruction, was able to knock out a company of enemy mechs.
   	ADVANTAGES:  The target and adjacent hex damage of these shells are 
   used to reduce the attack strength of mine hexes as per the rules for 
   Bangalor missiles.  These shells will also do double damage to any 
   structure with a CF rating.  EXAMPLE: Should a three hex long building be 
   hit in the center hex by a Long Tom Dam Buster then it would receive 80 
   points of damage. (20x2 for the center hex of the building + 10x2 + 10x2 
   for each of the adjacent hexes of the building)
   	DISADVANTAGES:  These shells do 1/4 damage to infantry, vehicles, or 
   mechs.
   
   Illumination Artillery Shells
   	WEAPONS:  Dart II, Thumper
   	DESCRIPTION:  These shells shoot a round that has a brightly 
   burning peice of metal (usually Magnesium) with a parachute attached.  
   These shells are used to eliminate the effects of darkness during night 
   fights.
   	ADVANTAGES:  Fire this shell as if it were a normal shell.  When 
   the hex of impact is determined this is actually the hex above which the 
   illumination shell floats down on its parachute.  This hex will drift in 
   the direction of the wind for each turn that it is up.  The illumination 
   covers an area with a radius of 10 hexes for 3 turns. 
   
   Smoke Artillery Shells
   	WEAPONS:  Arrow IV, Bolt III, Dart II, Long Tom, Sniper, Thumper
   	DESCRIPTION:  These smoke round rules replace those on p. 49 of 
   _The Battletech Compendium_.
   	ADVANTAGES:  	
   	Arrow IV & Long Tom:  These smoke rounds produce a 2 elevation high 
   smoke cloud in the target hex and the 6 adjacent hexes that lasts for 3 
   turns.
   	Bolt II & Sniper:  These smoke rounds produce a 1 elevation high 
   smoke cloud in the target hex and the 6 adjacent hexes that lasts for 3 
   turns.
   	Dart II and Thumper:  These smoke rounds produce a 1 elevation high 
   smoke cloud in the target hex and the 6 adjacent hexes that lasts for 1 
   turn.
   
   Telemetry Artillery Shells
   	WEAPONS:  Arrow IV, Bolt III, Dart II, Long Tom, Sniper, Thumper
   	DESCRIPTION:  These shells are used to better adjust fire with 
   artillery guns using a signal that orbitting geo-positional satellites pick 
   up.  The satellites then tell the firing crew, within 10 meters, where the 
   shell landed.  The shell also releases a small marker cloud that observers 
   can use to better observe where the shell landed.
   	ADVANTAGES:  These shells allow artillery peices to adjust fire 
   against fixed positions without the need of an observer.  If these shells 
   are fired with the help of an observer then there is a -2 bonus for 
   adjusting fire with the next shot.  The bonuses do not add on to each other 
   if Telemetry shells are used 2 or more times in a row.  These bonuses are 
   cumulative with observer and artillery gunner modifiers.
   	The hex that a Telemetry shell lands in counts as a "pre-registered 
   hex" as per p. 48 of _The Battletech Compendium_ once the shell has landed.  
   Any shots against this hex automatically hit.
   	DISADVANTAGES:  These shells do no damage at all.  The bonus will 
   only help the gun/launcher that fired the shell or any gun/launcher that is 
   connected to the firing unit via C^3.  It is not possible for one gun to do 
   the sounding shots for another gun unless they are connected by C^3 as per 
   the C^3 rules.
   
   White Phospherous Artillery Shells
   	WEAPONS:  Arrow IV, Bolt III, Dart II, Long Tom, Sniper, Thumper
   	DESCRIPTION:  The "Willie Pete" White Phosperous (WP) round is the 
   field artillery version of Inferno missiles.  This safer medium of 
   delivering incindieries does not last as long as Inferno liquid, yet is the 
   only kind that can stand the shock of firing without exploding.
   	ADVANTAGES:  Given below is a table showing the target heat that WP 
   shells deliver to the units in the hex of impact and the 6 surrounding 
   hexes.  Target is heat listed as X/Y is treated where X is the target heat 
   that any units in the hex of impact receive and Y is the target heat that 
   any units in a surrounding hex take.  
   
   Damage Rating	Turn 1	Turn 2	Turn 3	Turn 4
   -------------	------	------	------	------
   20/10		 10/10	 10/5	  5/2	  2/0
   10/5		 10/5	  5/2	  2/0
   5/2		  5/2	  2/0
   
   NOTE:  The Damage rating is the damage that the weapon would do if it were 
   to fire a regular shell.  Obviously a bigger shell will do more heat 
   longer.
   	DISADVANTAGES:  WP rounds do no damage, only target heat.  WP 
   rounds are treated just like Infernos for purposes of interactions with 
   Coolant Cannons.  (If the Coolant Cannon were to use liquid oxygen instead 
   of liquid nitrogen then double the heat inflicted, up to 20.)
   
   
   		E X P A N D E D   I N F A N T R Y   R U L E S
   
   	These rules are written to rectify the rules for infantry in 
   Battletech.  This is done under the following assumptions:
   	1)  When determining the size of a balanced game each side will 
   determine its size in tons instead of some financial unit such as C-Bills.
   	2)  If sides are determined in tons then the various types of 
   infantry are inherently different in capability.  
   	3)  If the various types of infantry are different incapability 
   then one or a few types will be taken over all the others.  This eliminates 
   some of the diversity that commanders can expect on the battlefield and 
   some of the realistic options that a commander can use in determining 
   his/her force composition.
   	With these reasons the rules for infantry will be changed or 
   expanded to make their use more defined and balanced.
   
   	Equivelant tonnage: Free for standard infantry. They weigh no tons  
   when determining their "cost."  The only requirement is that they be 
   transported onto the battlefield in some vehicle or mech.  For transport by 
   mech refer to the infantry pods in the weapons list and notes.  For transport 
   by vehicle refer to the Infantry Carrier rules in _The Battletech Compendium_ 
   on page 44.
   	Battlearmor are handled differently from standard infantry in that 5 
   tons must be "paid" for each point of 5.  Battlearmor does not have to be 
   carried on to the field via APC yet may be desirable.
   
   	Movement modifiers:  This ill defined subject is addressed and 
   changed here.  Infantry recieve a -1 to hit bonus if they do not move and 
   no penalties for moving.  Since infantry do not have a "running" speed there 
   are no like modifiers.  Jump infantry and battlearmor that jump as part of 
   their movement get a +1 to hit penalty.
   
   	Infantry type modifications:  Since all movement types of infantry 
   "cost" the same, there must be some way to make all the infantry from rifle 
   up to SRM platoons equal.  Below are the rules changes, if any, to the 
   various types of infantry and battlearmor to make them equal.
   
   	Rifle Platoons:  The special advantage that Rifle Platoons get is 
   that when they score damage and roll for location, that location may be 
   shifted up or down by one.  This shows that the soldiers are better able to 
   control and call their shots.  EXAMPLE:  A rifle platoon has hit a mech 
   from the front and has rolled a 6 for damage location, giving a right torso 
   hit for the 5 point group.  The rifle platoon has the option of shifting that 
   damage location roll from a 6 to a 5 or 7, hitting the right leg or the center 
   torso.  The last 2 points are rolled to hit 11, left arm.  The rifle 
   platoon may shift it to 10, left arm again, or to 12, head.  Obviously it 
   will be shifted to the head.
   
   	Machine Gun Platoons:  Machine gun platoons recieve a -1 to hit 
   bonus due to hit due to the directed high rate of fire of their weapons.
   
   	Flamer Platoons:  Flamer platoons get the bonus of doing heat 
   damage in addition to their normal damage.  They inflict 3 turns of 
   incindiery heat as per the target heat rules equal to their damage value.  
   EXAMPLE:  A flamer platoon with 16 men hits a mech doing 5 points of damage 
   and 5 points of target heat which lasts for 3 turns.
   
   	Laser Platoons:  Laser platoons inflict 1 point of target heat for 
   every 7 infantrymen in the platoon, round fractions down.
   
   	SRM Platoons:  SRM platoons may not use any of the different SRM 
   warheads or guidance systems available for mech mounted SRMs.
   
   	Machine Gun Battlearmor:  Machine gun battlearmor recieve a -1 to 
   hit bonus due to the directed high rate of fire.
   
   	Flamer Battlearmor:  Flamer battlearmor use the flamer rules as 
   presented in the weapons list.
   
   	Small Laser Battlearmor:  No changes.
   
   CREDIT FOR IDEAS:
   	Below is listed the folks and their ideas that went into the 
   creation of these weapons/systems.  Some of these ideas were taken without 
   their permission from the rec.games.mecha archives (Sorry if you don't like 
   it, but *YOU'RE* the one that posted it!) and some were taken from real 
   Battletech stuff.  If you have any questions, comments, quips, death 
   threats, bribes, or constructive criticisms drop me some private Email at 
   MURRAYMD@UDAVXB.OCA.UDAYTON.EDU.  I'll let you figure out the legalities...
   
   	JESSE.TAYLOR@BBS.OIT.UNC.EDU
   		Anti-Missile Laser
   		Infantry Pods (Battle Armor Infantry Pods are an outgrowth 
   			of this idea by myself.)
   	CLARKA@NETCOM.COM
   		Pulse Anti-Missile Laser
   	ROLEARY@ST.NEPEAN.UWS.EDU
   		TOW Missiles
   		Laser Guided Missiles
   		Radar Guided Missiles
   	EMEU09@CASTLE.ED.AC.UK
   		Cockpit Second Seats/Observers (basic idea)


Pyramid Scheme
Written By 
Douglas M. Warren
Copyright 1993

	James washed his hands in the stained sink.  Checking them 
a final time, he shook them dry, spattering droplets on the cloudy 
mirror.  He skeptically surveyed his reflection.  His hair was black 
and shiny like cheap vinyl, gathered by a leather band into a braid 
that flowed over his shoulder.  In honor of his totem, the braid had 
been dyed with horizontal stripes to resemble a raccoon's tail.
Slowly turning his head, James eyed his slightly hooked nose.  His 
nose and dark completion marked him as having Indian blood.  
However, his receding hairline bespoke Anglo genes as well.  He 
rubbed his eyes and groaned deeply.  Without looking James 
reached up and yanked the chain hanging from the bare light bulb.  
	He turned away from the sink and removed his buckskin 
coat from a hook nailed to the wall. Dust fell from the aged coat as 
he lifted it.  The rough leather seemed to pick up dust like a 
magnet.  He shook it roughly, scattering more crap into the air.  He 
slipped on the coat, buttoning the polished bone buttons.  The coat 
was a relic from a dead age.  Its intricate beadwork was dulled and 
worn from years of weather and wear.  The coat had been a gift to 
his grandfather from his Ute wife.  She had toiled for years on a 
reservation before the soft-spoken sociologist had swept her away 
with gifts and promises.  Working secretly for months, James'
grandmother had made the coat from native materials and had 
presented it to her husband on their tenth anniversary.  Peter 
Broussard had worn the coat as a badge of his love for her.  When 
Peter's son, Paul, had turned sixteen he was given the coat.  Paul,
in turn had passed it to James when he had turned sixteen.  
	That was nineteen years ago and the world had changed 
since then.  James walked into the main room of his flat.  The dim 
light threw shadows into the corners of the small room.  A dust 
covered trideo screen sat on a shelf cluttered with burned-out 
fetishes.  Mixed in with the useless tokens were several empty cred 
sticks.  With the rent due soon, James had to lay his hands on some 
quick nuyen.  Otherwise, he would be out on the streets, just 
another squatter.  James dreaded that, Seattle wasn't very kind to
its poor.  He made his way to a squat, synthwood dresser and slid 
open  the top drawer.  Two pistols were tucked under a pile of 
rumpled underwear.  James picked up one and weighed it in his 
hand.  The Ruger had never felt quite right to him.  Sighing, he 
stuffed the gun into the waist band of his baggy trousers.  James 
gently picked up the other pistol.  It was nestled in a holster with 
magical symbols carved into the soft leather.  He slid the smooth 
grip into his palm and tightened his fist.  A smile passed across his 
face.  The Predator had always seemed like a natural extension of 
his arm.  After checking the clip, James thumbed on the safety and 
deposited the weapon back into its holster.  He snapped the holster 
on its mounting clips inside his weather beaten coat.  James 
smoothed out the line of his jacket and headed for the door.  
	As he keyed the lock with his thumb he stopped short.  
Reaching up, he removed his war club from its roost above the 
door.  He strode out into the grimy hallway and hung the club on 
his belt as the door closed with an audible thud.  The hall reeked of 
mildew and sweat.  The deep shadows hid ragged transients 
sleeping in smelly heaps.  James shook his head as he stepped over 
a particularly dirty hobo whose bulk had spilled into the center of 
the corridor.  The dregs piled up in the halls on the coldest day no 
matter what the landlord did.  James' face hardened as he moved
closer to the tenement's front door.  As he pushed the door open
his face darkened with a look of intensity.  He was no longer James 
Broussard.  The people in the shadows knew him as Bishop Fuzz, 
magic muscle for hire.  He pulled the supple coat closer to his thick 
frame and scrambled down the cold, stone steps.  The Barrens were 
just starting to come to life in the early dusk.  Fuzz passed a group 
of people wearing cheap, synthleather outfits.  They gave him a 
wide berth as he mumbled under his breath. 
	Watching him as he passed, the punks whispered carefully 
to keep Fuzz from hearing.  "There's that crazy shaman again," one
remarked, "I seen him roast a hole go-go gang without batting an 
eye, chummer."	
	Another added, "no drek, joy-boy, them magic types play 
with ghosts and stuff!  Makes me damn nervous, it ain't natural."
        Bishop Fuzz didn't even seem to notice the surrounding
slum.  He just walked straight to the Purple Haze bar, just like he 
had a hundred times before.  A huge neon light hummed over the 
bar's bronze door.  As fuzz stepped inside he was embraced by a
wafting cloud of purple smoke.  The scent of nic-sticks almost 
choked him before he took three steps inside.  He nodded to the 
bartender and headed toward a table that the orc motioned to.  
Fuzz immediately recognized three of the men sitting at the table.  
One was a big orc dressed like a Seoul Man.  His well tailored suit 
couldn't hide the sinewy muscles of the metahuman.  The larger
occupant Fuzz also recognized.  He was a troll that dwarfed even 
the stout orc.  The troll wore an expensive leather jacket over a 
camouflaged jumpsuit.  He sat facing the door, watching Fuzz 
approach the table.  The third was a rumpled looking human, 
named Deveaux.  The three were talking quietly with a slick 
looking runner and a corp wage slave that was obviously out of his 
element.  Fuzz greeted his associates with a sly smile.  
	"Hoi Jinga, what chased you out from under your rock?"  
The orc frowned and crossed his arms.  The troll snickered and 
shifted in his chair.  Fuzz reached out and grasped the troll's
shoulder, squeezing gently. "Still fooling everybody with the 
jarhead routine, eh Sika," Fuzz laughed.  The troll shot him a 
toothy grin and slapped Fuzz on the arm.  
	"So you finally decided that we were better company than 
the rats in your apartment," the troll inquired.  
	Fuzz shook his head, "Nope, but I gotta make a living, 
what's biz today?"  The troll turned in his chair and introduced the
other people at the table.	
	"This is Mister Kramer,  he is in the employ of an unnamed 
Corp and he would like to hire us for an unauthorized data retrieval 
mission."  Next, Sika motioned to the pudgy human wearing a 
threadbare suit sitting next to the timid wage slave, "To Mr. 
Kramer's left is, as you know, Rick Deveaux, he will be gathering
any information we require prior to the actual mission.  To Mr. 
Kramer's right is Allister Watkins.  He will be assisting you with the
mission's magical chores."  Watkins was a slight man with sandy
hair cut close to his scalp.  His eyes gleamed even in the shadows of 
the bar.  "Naturally, I will be handling the net during our tenure," 
Sika continued, "and Jinga will act as protection if any resistance 
arises."  Sika introduced Bishop Fuzz to the mage and the corp and 
invited the shaman to have a seat.  "This, my new friends, is Bishop 
Fuzz.  He is a Ute shaman of great renown."	
	Watkins snorted contemptuously and sneered at Fuzz.  "Is it 
necessary to include this mystic.  His tricks are no match for my 
real magic."  
	Jinga laughed loudly and leaned over the table.  "Real 
magic?  You don't have to worry about the Bishop, he has got
plenty of juice where it counts,"  the orc's tone suddenly hardened,
"you should have more respect."  Watkins had no way of knowing 
that Jinga's mother had been a shaman.  Her promising career as a
runner had been cut short by a corporate wage mage.  Jinga had 
enjoyed killing that particular mage during a run seven years ago.  
Ever since his mother's death Jinga had distrusted mages.
	Fuzz spoke up loudly to diffuse the confrontation between 
the brawny orc and the mage," Pardon me folks, but I'm not going
to do anything until we discuss some numbers."  The mage eyed the 
orc with contempt as Mr. Kramer wrote on a crumpled napkin.  
The napkin was passed around the table.  Each runner read the 
number and nodded.  When Fuzz's turn came he glanced at their
figure scrawled on the soiled napkin, barely containing a gasp.	
	The take equaled one hundred thousand nuyen each.  With 
that much liquid cash Fuzz could sit tight for a couple months and 
study spells.  He had been playing with the idea for years but had 
never been able to score that many nuyen at one time.  After visions 
of a vacation rushed through his mind, doubt squirmed into his 
head.  Could this wage slave come up with that kind of cash or was 
he bluffing?  If he was bluffing the runners would come down hard 
on him.  Risk without reward was a serious breach in etiquette.  
The napkin was passed back to Kramer and he stuffed it into his 
coat pocket.  For the first time he spoke.	
	"For several months I have been working on a matrix 
program that will, I believe, revolutionize decking.  It surrounds the 
decker's persona with a halo of random data.  If an IC program
initiates action against the persona the random data will absorb the 
force, thereby protecting the decker.  The data halo also serves to 
obscure the decker's identity.  My employers originally asked me to
study ways to increase the security of our grid.  I created the halo 
program to test our IC system.  The halo was almost unstoppable.  
If this program was used by a particularly talented decker, the result 
could prove disastrous for the target."  An intense light burned in 
the programmer's eyes as he described the halo.
	Kramer stopped abruptly and collected his thoughts.  "Well, 
more to the point, recently I believe that my employers have been 
using the halo program to raid systems belonging to other 
corporations.  I, as of yet, have not received any compensation for 
the use of my program.  This is why I have contacted you."  Sika 
the troll stared open-mouthed at Kramer.  
	"Do you realize how valuable such a program is?"	
        "Yes, I have some idea, although decking isn't my
specialty."	
	"Well let me tell you, with a program like the one you have 
described,  no currently running system is secure.  I could transfer 
nuyen from any account to any other account without any trouble 
at all.  Its like owning a key that can open any lock in the world."  
The rest of the runners were licking their chops in anticipation.  It 
looked like the payoff was legit, maybe even too small.  For the first 
time, Watkins seemed interested.  
  
	The runners talked casually in an abandoned warehouse.  
They waited anxiously, wondering when their contact would arrive.  
As if on cue, Rick Deveaux shuffled in and stacked up several 
empty crates.  He produced a battered briefcase and heaved in onto 
the makeshift table, making it wobble drunkenly.  
        "There ya' go,  this is all the info I could get on the security
of the Aztechnology compound.  There are several possible routes 
in, they're marked in red."  The heavy set man shifted
uncomfortably then continued," still can't figure why Mr. K
couldn't dig up any hardcopies of the compound.  His sources gotta
be more up to date."  Rick opened the case, stacks of computer 
paper spilled out, covering the table.  Jinga picked up a colorful 
map from among the printouts.	
	"What the drek is this," Jinga growled," it looks like a travel 
brochure."  
        Rick snatched the map from the fuming orc's hand, "them
Aztec's are proud of their little home.  I was able to lay my grubby
little paws on this employee orientation packet.  They were even 
nice enough to label almost everything."  All of the runners laughed 
at the portly Cajun's wisecrack.
	"Friends, friends, we must now plan our outing," Sika 
gathered the runners together and began to thumb through the 
printouts.  "My goodness, these men at the compound are paranoid.  
Every room within the perimeter has a full sensor array, if I gain 
access to the net that could come in handy."  
	After waiting a few minutes to give the other runners a 
chance to look over the info, Deveaux spoke, "Far as I can figure, 
the easiest way in is through this service entrance on the north end.  
The traffic on Mercer Street thins out enough at night that we 
won't get no notice.  From there we just gotta cross the park
around the building.  Barghest is what we need to watch out for."  
Deveaux brushed hair out of his face and cleared his throat.  "From 
there my maps ain't much good.  Public areas are marked but
offices ain't.  That's where you take over, Sika."
	The troll nodded agreement and continued the briefing.  
"Once you fellows have breached the outer walls I will lead you to 
Kramer's lab.  I have a way of shutting down the perimeter
security.  Once inside, I will blink the lights along the easiest routes.  
That should be easy enough to follow.  However, the lab's
computers are inaccessible from the outside, which is why you have 
to make it to the lab.  During non-working hours the lab's terminals
and storage equipment are physically disconnected from the net to 
avoid intrusion.  I won't be able to access any of the lab's systems.
Any security in place will have to be bypassed manually.  You are 
responsible for that phase Mr. Deveaux.  Once you have 
downloaded the program, speed is of the essence.  Mr. Kramer 
should be waiting near the service exit for an extraction.  Hopefully 
the operation will look like a kidnapping, thus adding to the 
confu...."	
	"Pardon me," Watkins interrupted, "all of this is very 
entertaining but you have neglected to mention one thing.  Why 
have my magical services been retained?  If the operation is as 
simple as you let on, why not hire a couple more brainless 
razorboys."   Jinga growled and moved toward the small mage.  
Bishop Fuzz laid a restraining hand on the orc's shoulder.
	"I was just about to come to that.  It has been rumored that 
the Aztechnology has a large number of mages on staff to deal with 
security threats.  In order to counterbalance that possible 
complication, we have retained you in addition to the Bishop.  Your 
combined skills should be sufficient to deal with any eventuality."	
        "I have heard a lot of things about the Aztecs' manna troops
and they don't sound to friendly," Fuzz added, "in fact, a chummer
of mine says they stress body count over information, so take them 
down hard if possible, nothing flashy."  Fuzz looked straight at 
Jinga to make his point.  
        "Don't worry Bishop, if you want them cold, I'm your man,
or your orc to be exact."  None of the runners appreciated the 
samurai's levity.  If one person screwed up during a run it could
cost the entire team their lives.  With that much at stake, humor 
was a scarce commodity, caution wasn't.  Bishop Fuzz had trusted
his life to all of the runners at one time or another, except for 
Watkins.  The sly little mage was still an unknown.  Fuzz had 
known Jinga for a little over three years, meeting during a run.  The 
orc was a basically good guy, although a little rough.  However, 
Jinga was obsessed with his image, constantly posturing and 
competing.  He always seemed to be involved in fights over some 
imagined insult.  Usually, the task of mediation fell to Fuzz, the 
oldest member of the group.  Jinga's hypersensitivity didn't spring
from his status as a metahuman.  Quite to the contrary, he was 
fiercely proud of his savage heritage.  This resulted form being born 
an orc.  He had never known anything else and relished the physical 
prowess his parentage had bestowed on him.	
        The team's other metahuman, Sika, was also an old friend
of Fuzz's.  He was small by troll standards, but dwarfed all but the
largest humans.  A refugee of the hellish Yomi Island, Sika had 
turned to technomancy to make up for his small stature.  The other 
trolls welcomed a sharp mind into their usually dull-minded circle, 
finally able to  make bigger scores running the shadows.  After 
accumulating enough nuyen, Sika decided to part company with his 
friends on Yomi, seeking a better living in Seattle.  Coming from an 
area dominated by metahumans, he was unprepared for the naked 
racism  that flourished in his new home.  For many months Sika 
was unable to find work as a decker simply because of his heritage.  
Who ever heard of a troll decker anyway.  
	Six years ago he finally got his chance.  He was approached 
by a shabby looking street shaman who was strapped for cash.  
Jumping at any opportunity, Sika agreed to work for Bishop Fuzz.  
The troll's share of the take had certainly grown since then, so had
his reputation on the streets.  As kind of an inside joke, the decker 
dressed like a samurai.  Most people tended to underestimate his 
worth as a matrix cowboy.  Fortunately, Sika was one of the best, 
adding to the team's effectiveness.
	Originally from the bayous of Louisiana, Rick Deveaux had 
been a valuable member of the group for the last few years.  His 
backwoods charm carried over well in the tougher areas of Seattle.  
Many people mistook his rural mannerisms for a lack of 
intelligence, a big mistake when dealing with Deveaux.  People 
tended to say to much around Rick because they underestimated 
him, but information was his business.  Fuzz trusted Deveaux to 
provide first rate data, never putting profit over integrity.  
Everything about him seemed out of place in the sprawl, from his 
Cajun accent to his old fashioned clothes.  Maybe that was the 
reason Bishop liked the detective so much.  Deveaux didn't
constantly remind him of what his city had become. 
	"That will be quite enough," Sika snapped at Jinga breaking 
Fuzz's train of thought.  "We must plan our actions carefully or
there may be a serious problem."
	"Whatever," Jinga snorted.  
	Deveaux stepped up and continued to lay down his plan.  
"After Sika gets us to the lab I will scramble the electronic lock.  It 
shouldn't take more than a few seconds to  bust the puppy.  Once
inside Jinga will have to jack in to download the program since he is 
the only one of us with a plug.  We are very vulnerable without his 
firepower while he is on line so we got to keep a sharp eye.  
Hopefully the techs that run the lab didn't put to much IC on their
internal system, But you got to be careful Jinga.  I don't think we
got to worry to much about Magic wards in the lab.  Techs don't
like manna flingers to much anyway.  Once we got the program he 
head out hard and fast.  No stopping or splitting up.  We only got 
one ride out and if you ain't there we leave without you.  There will
be a Maxi-taxi waiting for us just outside the gate.  It should be big 
enough to hold all of us, no problem."  Deveaux paused for any 
questions then continued.  "That's it boys, all we need now is a
little luck." 
        "Hit and run," Watkins questioned sardonically, "you can't
come up with anything better than that?"  Bishop had to put a hand 
on Jinga's shoulder to calm him.
        "If you don't like it then don't go," the orc growled.
	"Maybe that is a very good idea." 
	Sika stepped in between the two runners, "Mr. Watkins, we 
need your magic skills to ensure the success of the mission.  I 
assure you that Mr. Deveaux has analyzed all the available 
information  and has submitted a worthy plan.  The payment should 
cover any risks involved in the mission, so please reconsider."  
	Watkins relaxed at the trolls words and nodded, "Yes, 
you're right, the money is to good too turn my back on."  As the 
runners settled down and thought over the plan, Deveaux packed 
up his case and prepared to leave.
	"The job goes down five hours from now,"  Sika addressed 
the runners, "I suggest you all go home and blow off a little steam.  
I need you in top form or we could all get burned.  We are going to 
assemble the team here at six p.m., don't be late."  The troll looked
straight at Jinga.  The orc wore a pained expression and agreed.  
The runners filed out of the building and went their separate ways.
  
	Fuzz sat on a stool at the counter of a sidewalk food stand. 
	"Hoi, give me a soy dog, no onions."  He flipped the cashier 
a cred stick. 
        "That it?"  The cashier asked as he handed back Fuzz's
now-empty cred stick and his food.  Fuzz nodded and unwrapped 
the dog.  He didn't especially like soy dogs but they were about all
he could afford.  He gulped down the soy-meat and stale bun, 
relishing what little taste they had.  Hunger often acted as the best 
appetizer.  The street shaman wadded up the dog's wrapper and
tossed it into a trash can.  It was about time to meet for the mission.  
Fuzz had sacked out for a couple of hours to make sure he would 
have plenty of energy.  This mission was too important to screw up 
because of a lack of sleep.  If everything went as planned, Fuzz 
could stay up for the next year without worrying about work. 
	He got up and started back toward the warehouse.  He 
checked all of his equipment on the way there.  Evidently the rest of 
the runners were already there.  A beat up Maxi-taxi idled at the 
entrance, waiting to take the runners to the Aztechnology 
compound.  Fuzz opened the door and entered the warehouse.  
Sika sat at a makeshift table constructed from a door and two 
sawhorses.  He was jacked into a portable terminal, his hands 
playing over the keyboard at a breakneck pace.  Rick approached 
Fuzz. 
	"He just checking everything out, just in case Kramer got 
cold feet."  Just then Sika finished his survey and disconnected the 
data plug from his jack. 
        "There doesn't seem to be any unscheduled activity in the
Aztec net, so it looks safe for now," the runners gathered around 
and listened, "this is it folks, just play it cool and safe and there 
should not be any complications.  After all, we are professionals."  
Sika looked straight at Jinga and then Watkins. 
	"Yeah, whatever, Jinga responded angrily, "I got the 
picture, all business." 
	Watkins lounged on a chair in the corner, a look of disgust 
on his face. 
	"Can we please get on with this," he said sardonically.  "The 
sooner we finish this the sooner I will be able to forget this cretin."  
Jinga bristled at the mage's words but managed to hold his anger.
A hundred thousand nuyen was enough to salve even the orc's
savage temper.  "What's wrong tusker?  Have you devolved past
the ability to speak?"  
        Unexpectedly, Jinga just smiled.  "Don't worry, I can speak,
when it suits me."  The other runners stared at the orc in disbelief.  
Never had they seen him control his temper so well.  Usually Jinga 
pummeled first and talked later.  He definitely was up to something.  
Fuzz only hoped it wouldn't interfere with the mission.  Any
distraction could prove fatal, and that included hidden agendas.  
Sika broke the uneasy silence. 
	"I have found a way into the Aztec system.  If you all leave 
in about ten minutes I will be jacked in again and ready to go by the 
time you arrive at the compound.  Rick will fill in the final details in 
the meantime." 
	"Okay folks, this is it.  After we drop off at the compound 
we hit the wall on the north side.  We may have to tank a couple of 
guards, then bang, we in.  Just a run through the park and we slip in 
this side door, only one guard to ace there.  Remember, we gotta 
watch for those hounds while we in the park.  If they corner us we 
shoot em, otherwise no guns, or magic.  That kinda noise attracts 
to much notice.  After that, it's all down hill, till we hit the lab.  I 
got some ideas how to bust the locks but you gotta cover me, so I 
can think.  Getting in is easy, getting out ain't.  Once we got the
program, we scat, quick.  They gonna expect us to go out the way 
we came in, but we ain't.  We are gonna be packin Aztec security
uniforms for the run out.  We ain't gonna wear them in though.  If
we do, they will be expecting it, so we wait till we go to put em on.  
From there we go straight out the front gate on the west side, with 
a Maxi-taxi waiting, wave bye-bye to the Aztecs and wave hello to 
100 grand each.  So what you think, boys?" 
	Fuzz and Jinga both nodded but Watkins just shrugged.  By 
this time Sika was back into the system and ready to go.  Fuzz said 
good luck to the decker as he left, but the troll didn't seem to hear
him.  His consciousness was awash in the sparkling reality of the 
matrix. 
        Sika's persona icon resembled a demon, small and dark,
with twisted limbs.  Its size belied the strength in the misshapen 
arms.  Some deckers tended to underestimate Sika's ability because
of his choice of matrix icons.  The way the troll thought, the flashier 
a decker's appearance in the matrix, the bigger his or her ego.  Sika
chose the demon for several reasons.  First of all, it was cheap.  
When he started out, Sika wasn't able to afford one of the stylish
varieties, so he bought a simple icon program. 
	On his first mission the troll decker encountered  many of 
the usual IC defenses one could expect in a security system.  
However, Sika also encountered something different.  After 
breaching his objective an active alert had gone out.  The system 
was swarming with active IC as well as company deckers.  Sika 
panicked and accessed an out of the way storage node in order to 
hide until the heat cooled off.  Inside the node he found several data 
packs that were unprotected and unlabeled.  He figured they were 
junk data left there by some lazy decker.  He picked them up in 
order to disguise himself.  If the ICs found him they might overlook 
his icon and assume he was just another piece of innocuous data.  
Eventually, the system went off of active alert.  Sika carefully made 
his way out of the net with the information he was paid to steal plus 
the two unlabeled data packs.  
	An experienced matrix cowboy would have discarded the 
two surplus scraps of info, but Sika didn't.  Flushed with his very
first success, he collected his payoff and found the first pay terminal 
he could.  The troll attacked the data packs with ferocity, tearing 
into them and peeling back the layers of useless numbers.  The 
inexperienced young troll's heart fell.  The first data pack didn't
contain anything of value, unless you considered week old stock 
info a hot collectible.  Sika nearly threw away the second batch 
without combing through it.  Fortunately, trolls don't give up
easily.  
	He began to strip away layer after layer of worthless data.  
Suddenly Sika stumbled onto some intact code.  He carefully erased 
all the surrounding data until the hidden program began to take 
shape.  After an hour of feverish labor, Sika cleared away the 
remaining trash and sat back to view his discovery.  He started a 
more detailed investigation by attempting to access the program 
directly.  There were blocks in place to prevent tampering of that 
sort so the attempt failed.  Still not discouraged, the troll tried a 
more unconventional approach.  He attacked the code itself in order 
to determine if it was equipped with defenses.  The program 
immediately sprang to life.  It assumed the from of an imp, quietly 
taking in its surroundings.  The creature scanned the confines of the 
terminal node until its gaze fell upon Sika's icon.  It approached the
decker and sized him up. 
	"Who are you and what is your business here," it asked.  
Sika froze.  This program could only be one thing, black ice.  The 
imp's face hardened when Sika didn't reply.  "I ask again, what is
your business here?"  The young decker didn't know what to do.
Black ice was designed to attack and disable even the most 
experienced Matrix runner.  If Sika didn't get away quickly he
would most likely die.  In the physical world Sika's hand grabbed
the data plug and began to pull.  Jacking out cold was risky but not 
as dangerous as facing the black ice.  His arm froze before he could 
jerk the plug from his temple.  Fire flew from the imp's hand,
swirling around Sika's icon pinning his arms to his sides.  Sika was
paralyzed, caught in an electronic feedback loop.  The harder he 
tried to free himself the weaker he became.  The imp's grin
widened, full of evil and glee.  The IC enjoyed every second of 
Sika's pain.  "Now that I have you, will you answer me?  Why are
you here." 
	"My name is Sika.  I just dug you out of a bunch of garbage 
data," Sika struggled to answer the smirking IC.  A look of 
confusion filled the imp's eyes.
	"I sense you tell the truth, but how did I get here." 
	"I found you buried in a trashed data pack.  I just wanted to 
see what was inside." 
        "I do not understand this.  I shouldn't be here, yet I am.  My
parameters do not include leaving my system.  I must think."  The 
imp froze  stiff while sorting out the situation.  The IC didn't have
commands pertaining to the net outside of its own system and 
without a direct link to its base system, the IC was confused.  "I am 
unable to access my CPU for further commands.  My programming 
directs me to attack only those intruding on my designated node.  
We are not currently in that node, therefore, I have made an error."  
The imp lowered his hand.  The fire surrounding Sika immediately 
disappeared, freeing him.  The imp continued to speak, "there has 
been a catastrophic system error.  I am unable to re-establish 
contact from this location.  I will now default to secondary 
command protocol, system integrity protection.  I must eliminate 
my internal data stores in order to safeguard against its use in future 
intrusion attempts.  Terminate now." 
	The image of the imp wavered, blurring around the edges.  
The icon began to crumble, disintegrating from the inside.  Sika 
watched the imp dissolve into a pile on electronic chaff, yet 
something glinted from within the pile of ashes.  Sika retrieved the 
object and brushed away the charred remains of the imp.  Sika held 
in his hands several lines of code.  He gently spread them out in 
front of his icon, surveying them.  They seemed to be part of the 
IC's imaging program.  It was a high resolution program, possibly
from the Fuchi 10,000 series.  High resolution imaging was 
expensive and hard to come by.  It required hours of program 
sculpting by a talented programmer to achieve a truly realistic 
image.  Sika had something worth several thousand nuyen right in 
front of him.  On a whim the decker accessed his own persona 
program.  He carefully removed the code that gave his icon its 
nondescript appearance.	
        His persona's image wavered, losing its humanoid shape.  In
its place, Sika inserted the imp's imaging program.  His icon began
to take on a new shape, the shape of the imp.  However, some of 
the program must have been missing.  Sika's icon shrunk, its limbs
contorting.  His icon resembled the imp to some degree but the 
program was forced to compensate for the missing information.  
The deformed demon image was the end result.  The icon retained 
enough of the Black Ice's image to make most deckers think twice 
about confronting him.  This, combined with Sika's skills in the 
matrix, made for a great reputation among the distrustful world of 
the shadowrunners.

	Sika didn't even hear the other runners leave the warehouse.  
All of his senses were slaved to the cyberdeck sitting across his lap.  
His large fingers flew across the keyboard with practiced ease.  He 
was on his way through the matrix to the Aztechnology's private 
net.  In the matrix the Aztec system resembled a pre-Colombian 
pyramid with neon lines of light radiating out into the net, 
connecting it with the outside world.  Millions of Nuyen traveled 
electronically in and out of the pyramid.  Using the password 
bought from one of Aztechnology's former programmers, Sika 
bluffed his way past the systems outer security.  Once inside the 
net, all of the resemblance to an ancient Aztec pyramid disappeared.  
The interior resembled highways of light moving from node to node 
carrying millions of bytes of information each second.  Information 
was the currency of the net.
	The password Sika had used was high enough to grant him 
access to most of the system's nodes, but  it was too old to grant 
him access to the juicer bits of Aztec data, but he was not after data 
on this run.   The decker's job was to be the other runners' guardian 
angel while they made their way to the protected lab deep within 
the building.  He began his preparation by locating the complex's 
operations node.  Before entering the node, Sika triggered his 
cyberdeck's backup imaging software.  The demon's features melted 
into a nondescript humanoid shape, one that would be ignored by 
most corp deckers.  Carefully, he entered the node.  Several icons 
flitted around the interior, adjusting various systems to keep the 
complex running smoothly.  They didn't seem to notice Sika as he 
entered. The troll watched the other icons waiting for them to react 
to his presence.  
	After several moments one of the icons approached the 
decker and queried his  presence.  The corp decker could tell from 
Sika's password that the troll had higher access then the lowly wage 
slave.  Sika quickly produced a file of data and ordered the decker 
to update the perimeter sensor array program with the new 
directives.  He took it from Sika's icon and made his way to the 
perimeter controls.  When he entered the new information, the 
system fought back.  The file that Sika had given the corp decker 
was designed to cause a feedback loop that would indefinitely 
paralyze the icon and the security system until they were released 
by someone with the appropriate code words.  The two other 
deckers jumped at their coworker's dilemma.  Before they could 
react to the loop, Sika released an entanglement program.  A ball of 
blinding light shot from Sika's hand expanding into a shimmering 
net of energy.  I covered the deckers' icons and closed around them.  
As long as the net could draw energy from the icons, it would 
continue to hold the deckers immobile, unable to activate the 
system's security alert.  The troll did not waste any time gloating 
over  his success.  He shut off outside access to the node and began 
his work.  First, he reactivated his cyberdeck's primary imaging 
software.  The trapped deckers' eyes widened as the innocuous 
looking intruder transformed into a  grinning demon.  Sika laughed 
to himself.  Would those deckers be more horrified by his real 
appearance or the icon he choose.
	The troll walked over to the controls for the gate security 
and pressed his hand against the video interface.  Immediately, his 
vision was replaced by the image from the gate's visual monitors.  
He watched people come and go until the runners showed up.  The 
gate was not manned by a guard.  Anyone wanting to enter or leave 
was required to have their palm and retina scanned for ID purposes.  
The security computer would then compare the scans to the access 
records.  If there was a match, the gate would open automatically.  
If not, a regular guard was summoned and they could manually 
open the gate if everything checked out.  The demon icon plunged 
its hand into the stream of data coming from monitoring equipment.  
He inserted a rider program into the stream and let it carry the 
program to the complex's security processor.  The only purpose the 
program served was to confuse the processor with echoed 
information.  Sika's feedback loop effectively disabled the systems 
ability to restrict access to the complex.  Anyone, no matter who, 
could get in through the gate.  The feedback loop caused the 
computer to erroneously match any scan to that of  an authorized 
employee record.
	The runners passed through the gates unmolested like any 
other employee coming back from a day of slumming in Seattle.  
Sika couldn't help but laugh at the ease of the breach.  It had all 
been made possible by one disgruntled programmer with the 
foresight to implant a secret password in the system.  It was not a 
good idea to piss off a top notch decker who had unlimited access 
to your network.  They had a tendency to leave behind nasty 
surprises.
	Once the runners had made it through the outer walls, Sika 
sprang into action.  The lights on an out of the way path flickered 
for the barest of moments, but it was enough to signal the runners 
of the right course.  As the trotted along the wooded path toward a 
side entrance, the baying of Barghest could be heard in the distance.  
Just to be on the safe side, Sika switched his monitors to the 
Kennels located on the south side of the Pyramid.  The hounds 
were pacing, but still in their cages.  The handlers did not appear to 
be aware of the breach in security.  So far, the plan was working 
perfectly.
	Sika switched his monitor back to the outside camera and 
picked up the path of the runners once again.  They were making 
good  progress along the winding path.  They reached the service 
entrance in the concrete wall and waited for the decker to let them 
in.  Sika triggered the door lock, allowing them to enter the 
Aztechnology headquarters.  Jinga was the first in.  His hand was 
inside his coat, resting on the stock of his smart-gun, ready to 
dispatch the guard.  Next came Deveaux.  He was breathing heavily 
from carrying a heavy bag filled with equipment needed for getting 
past the lab's lock.  They were followed by Watkins and Fuzz.  The 
shaman closed the door behind the group and looked over the 
group, trying to determine if they were ready to continue.  
Strangely, there was no sign of the guard.  It could be a lucky break 
or a sign of trouble.  Jinga nodded to the camera mounted on the 
ceiling, knowing that the troll would see and understand.  The lights 
flickered, signaling Sika's response.  
	The inner door slid open.  The hall beyond was empty of 
any workers.  Deveaux had wisely chosen a seldom used service 
corridor that went almost all of the way to the lab.  Jinga led the 
group out of the room and into the hallway.  He scanned it and 
waited for directions from the watching decker.  The lights flashed 
down the hall to the right.  The group jogged down the corridor 
until the lights stopped blinking.  They came to a stop directly in 
front of a closed elevator door.  After several seconds, there was a 
beep and the door opened to revel a large cargo lift.  The runners 
filed in and began to check their weapons.  If the job was going to 
get hot, now was the most likely time.  They were about to enter a 
section of the pyramid that was patrolled by armed security in 
addition to the normal automated security.  They were about to 
enter the Aztechnology's computer research center.
	After descending for what seemed like an eternity, the 
elevator came to a stop, but the doors did not open.  After several  
seconds, Jinga began to suspect something was not right.  The 
runners shifted uneasily and looked up at the video pickup mounted 
on the ceiling of the lift.  Without warning, the doors slid open.  
The click of boot heels was easily audible coming from the 
otherwise quiet corridor.  The footsteps slowed and then stopped 
when the door finished opening.  All the runners held their breath.    
The sound began again, only this time they were coming closer.  
Jinga produced a wicked looking knife from his boot and prepared 
to spring if needed.  Fuzz and Watkins readied their spells as well.  
If the guard was able to raise the alarm, the mission would be 
blown.  Suddenly, the lights in the corridor went out.  It was pitch 
black in the elevator and the hall.  None of the runners, except for 
Jinga could see a thing.  Sika had counted on that.  Jinga slipped 
out of the elevator silently and spotted the guard with his 
thermographic vision.  Orcs and trolls had the ability to see the heat 
a person's body emitted, even in complete darkness.  Jinga could 
see the reddish outline of a medium sized human.  The guard was 
fumbling around, trying to find the flashlight hanging from his belt.  
Before he could retrieve it Jinga leaped at him, knocking the man 
onto his back.  Air rushed out of the guard's lungs as the heavy orc 
landed on top of him.  The samurai clapped his hand over the 
guard's mouth while his other hand snapped down on his throat.  
The steel pommel of the knife impacted with the man's Adam's 
apple with a crunch.  The guard squirmed as his crushed windpipe 
swelled and cut off his breathing.  Jinga laid on top of the guard 
until he stopped thrashing.     
	When he was sure the guard was dead, Jinga dragged him 
back to the elevator.  The other runners waited in silence for Jinga 
to return.  After the sounds of a short scuffle, they clearly heard 
Jinga coming back.  Bishop was shocked to find the dead guard 
laying at his feet when the lights came back up.  He looked at Jinga, 
but the orc's face was completely unreadable.  A look of total 
concentration burned right through Fuzz.  The orc had not meant 
the dead body as a joke.  He had simply dumped it in the elevator 
before it was spotted by another guard.  Jinga motioned for the rest 
of the group to follow him.  His gun was now out of his jacket, 
ready to dispatch anyone unlucky enough to discover the party.  
	They followed a trail of flickering light through a maze of 
sterile corridors until they came to one fixture that was completely 
out.  It was directly in front of a thick door recessed into the wall, 
forming a sort of alcove.  
	"This has got to be it," Jinga said.  The orc took up a guard 
position further down the hall and Deveaux began ministering to the 
lock.  The detective pulled out several electronic devices from his 
large satchel and began hooking them up to the lock's keypad.
	"Now comes the hard part.  I can tell this puppy is gonna be 
a bitch."  With that, he activated the devices.  After a seemingly 
endless time, the detective started removing the devices from the 
door.  "Step one, down.  Now I know what we are dealing with.  I 
was right, this is gonna be tough."  
	"You mean in all that time, all you discovered was what 
kind of lock it is?"  Watkins was stunned.
	"Sure nuff',  knowing what you're up against is half the 
trouble.  This ain't like throwing dice, boy.  One wrong key punch 
and the whole place knows we are here.  Slow and steady, that's the 
way to handle this."
The detective's words soothed the mage somewhat, but he was 
beginning to get tense.  The detective threw the gadgets he had 
been using back into his satchel and retrieved a small, laptop 
terminal.  After comparing several output cables, he deftly attached 
one to the door's Id processor.  He furiously typed in characters.
Several times he cursed in pijin French and shook his head.  Fuzz 
knew that Deveaux was doing his best, but he wished he would 
hurry up.  Every second they were in the hall increased the 
possibility that they would be discovered.  
	The entire party tensed as the sound of footsteps resounded 
in the distance.  Jinga checked the safety on his rifle and waited for 
the footsteps to get closer.  Watkins began fishing around in a bag 
hanging from his belt.  His hand came out holding a sprig of some 
plant, preparing for a spell.  Fuzz could feel the manna swelling 
within him, until he felt as if he would burst.  With a quiet whoop 
Deveaux stepped away from the door.	
	It swung open to reveal a nondescript computer room.  
Three terminals, attached to a network, sat on a desk in the center 
of an otherwise featureless room.  No decorations adorned the 
walls or desk, only the computers and the supporting hardware.  	
	Across the room was another door marked as a restroom.  
Fuzz hoped that this was the right place.  He had expected 
something else.  He did not know what he had expected, but not 
this. All of the runners piled into the room and they closed the door 
behind them and waited.  They were not out of danger yet.  If the 
guard had heard them or had discovered the body, the entire 
Aztechnology security force could be on its way to the lab.  
	"SSSS," Fuzz hissed through his teeth.  All of the 
shadowrunners looked at him in surprise.  "I am going to try a 
spell."  Deveaux just nodded.  All of the others seemed to go along.  
Fuzz closed his eyes and tried to find his center.  His consciousness 
slowly expanded, first, beyond his body, then beyond the room.  His 
spirit floated through the door and checked the hall, clearly seeing 
the guard.  The watchman did not seem overly concerned or on 
edge.  Reassured, Fuzz returned to his body.  As his senses 
returned to normal, he felt drained, as if he had just run a long 
distance.  
	Watkins eyed the Shaman with a look of distaste.  While 
Fuzz had been checking the corridor his body had undergone a 
change.  His face had elongated, giving him a bestial appearance 
and dark circles formed around his eyes.  Watkins considered such 
things side show tricks, unnecessary for the performance of real 
magic, hermetic magic.  Jinga grinned when he saw the mage's
expression.  Anything that the small mage disliked made it to the 
top of the orc's list.  Jinga just did not trust mages, sitting in their
dark libraries, studying arcane tomes.  Shaman magic had always 
seemed more natural to the orc and it did not help that Jinga's
mother had been killed by a mage. 
	Fuzz shook off the sudden fatigue and reported his findings 
to the group, "it doesn't look like he heard us, so let's get busy."
The sooner we get out of here the better I will feel.  I don't want to
run into any of those Leopard troops."
	Jinga slung is HK and circled the desk, flicking on each 
terminal as he passed.  As each came on line he typed in a few 
commands until he found the file server.  He sat down in front of 
the computer and took a deep breath. He looked at the other 
runners and gave a half hearted chuckle.
	"Decking isn't my specialty.  I hope they don't have any IC 
on this server."  Fuzz and Deveaux returned the orc's grin but 
Watkins only rolled his eyes.  The orc removed a short cable from 
his breast pocket and connected it to the terminal through the 
keyboard.  With one final look of uncertainty, he slipped the plug in 
the jack located behind his pointed ear.  Jinga immediately fell into 
a trance and began typing clumsily on the keyboard.  It had been 
made for human hands and the orc's thick fingers struggled to 
depress one key at a time. After several unsuccessful attempts, the 
orc let out a grunt of triumph.
	"I'm in," Jinga said, "now, all that I have to do is find the 
damn program, anybody got any ideas what they call it?  Everything 
in here looks like garbage and I don't have enough room in my skull 
to download all of it."
	The detective pulled a small module out of his pack and 
inserted it into the deck's external port.  The orc smiled when he 
realized what the detective had brought along.   One common type 
of corporate software security was a process known as program 
crunching.  At the end of each day the software engineers run a 
program that compressed existing programs into a smaller space by 
defining character codes for common commands or strings of code. 
After the compression was completed, the program code was 
rendered unreadable without the translation key.  Normally, the key 
was kept in a separate, secure location to prevent intruders from 
translating stolen data.  
	Anticipating such a precaution,  Deveaux had brought along 
a external memory cache.  Jinga shunted the data into the cache, 
hoping that the program they wanted was within the tangled data 
pouring from the lab banks.  The runners could uncrunch the data 
at their leisure without Aztec troops breathing down their neck.  
The transfer from the terminal into the cache completed, Jinga 
inserted a virus into the lab's system to cover their tracks.  It would 
be impossible for the Aztecs to tell if the valuable program had been 
part of the purged data or if it had been stolen.  The orc jacked out, 
pulling the cache from the deck's port and tossing it to Deveaux.  
"We got it, now let's go."  With that, the detective pocketed the 
cache in his hip pocket, pleased at its reassuring weight.  Each of 
the shadowrunners stripped off their packs and removed Aztec 
security uniforms.  They pulled on the baggy jumpsuits over their 
clothes.  They wouldn't stand up to close inspection, but the 
runners did not plan on sticking around long enough for anyone to 
realize that the group was bogus.  Hopefully, the confusion caused 
by the intrusion would cover their exit.  The scarlet jumpsuits were 
a definite contrast to the runners' normally muted clothes.  
	It wasn't healthy to attract attention in their line of work.  
Deveaux's suit had two small clusters of polished amber on each 
shoulder, the rank on captain in the Aztec forces.  If they ran into 
any trouble with the normal security, Deveaux's rank might be 
enough to get them through without a fight.  After adjusting the 
suits and checking to be sure they looked as little like runners as 
possible, the group moved toward the door of the lab.  Jinga 
peaked out, ready to fire at any guards that showed up.  He slipped 
out into the hall and covered the corridor with his HK.  At a signal 
from the orc, the rest of the runners filed out of the lab.  Deveaux 
turned and reset the lock.  If a security alert was called, automatic 
systems would poll all of the locks in the building, checking to see if 
any were opened at an unscheduled time.  Locking the door behind 
them might fool the system and prevent security from pinning down 
the location of the intruders.  Every bit of uncertainty on the part of 
the guards increased the chances of a smooth extraction.
	The corridor was empty except for the runners.  Luckily, 
everything had gone according to plan, so far.  They waited for 
Sika's signal to proceed.  With the main objective out of the way, 
the troll's job was to lead them out of the complex by a different 
route in order to confuse the pursuit.  Without access to the floor 
plans of the high security areas, the decker was forced to use the 
building's internal system's to piece together a map of the complex.  
Sika had been monitoring the team's progress to the lab, but was 
unable to access the room's equipment because it was isolated 
during non-working hours.  He breathed a sigh of relief when he 
viewed, through a video pickup, the runners exiting the lab.  Sika 
flicked the lights just east of the team, signaling that the corridor 
was clear.  He watched them slip down the hall toward a stairwell 
just to the north of their location.  The route to the stairs wound 
through several hallways running like labyrinths through the 
research area.  This floor's layout was designed to confuse anyone 
not familiar with the area and slow them down.  It was rumored 
that the Aztec Leopard guards trained in corridors like these to 
practice repelling espionage attempts.
	Finally, the runners came to the door leading to the stairs.  
It was thick black metal edged with yellow caution stripes.   Jinga 
stooped to examine the door knob, checking for hidden locks or 
alarms.  It would not be good to alert the Aztec's to their presence 
when they were this close to getting out.  A small hole was set in 
the center of the knob.  The orc could not tell if it was a lock or 
not.  
	"Deveaux, take a look at this."  The orc beckoned for the 
detective to check out the door.  "Is that a lock?"
	He leaned toward the door, eyeing the hole, "don't know, 
could be."
	"Oh wonderful," Watkins spoke for the first time since they 
had left the lab.  "Why don't you just open the door and find out," 
the mage said sardonically.
	"I got better ways than that to see, after all, this ain't my 
first time out."  The detective grinned at the mage and went back to 
work.  He pulled out a small flashlight and switched it on. The 
black door seemed to suck up the light when Deveaux pointed the 
light at it.  He peered into the hole, trying to discern any hidden 
circuitry or mechanisms.  Smiling, Deveaux put away the light.
	"This is an easy one."  The detective reached into his 
jumpsuit, pulling out a pen.  With a twist, a needle like blade flicked 
out of the end.  "Watch and learn kiddies."  He spit on the end of 
the blade and slid it into the hole in the knob.  Sparks shot from the 
lock and the runners heard it click.  "Little piece of advice folks, 
never leave any bare wire.  It just makes things to easy."  Jinga 
laughed at the detective's joke, but the mage just fumed at the ease 
with which Deveaux had jimmied the lock.  Every time the mage 
assumed the detective was a back-woods moron, the Cajun proved 
him wrong.  Watkins did not like being wrong.  
	Jinga entered the stairwell first, his HK at the ready.  
Deveaux followed the samurai with his pistol raised, then it was 
Bishop's turn.  He slipped into the stairwell, ready to launch a spell 
if called for.  The rear was brought up by Watkins.  He moved 
carelessly, as if we was more worried about what he was going to 
have for dinner rather than if they were going to get caught.  
Deveaux noticed the mage's bearing and turned to caution him.  
Before the words left his mouth, the door to the stairwell swung 
closed, the sound reverberating throughout the stairwell.  Jinga's 
head snapped around, thinking that there was trouble behind them.  
The mage stood with a disinterested look on his face, unapologetic 
and bored.
	"Are you cracked?"  Jinga hissed,  "watch the noise, ya 
doink."
	"Eat drek, tusker, nobody heard it."
	"You better hope so or you die first, I'll make sure."  Jinga's 
face was twisted in  snarl.  It sent ripples down Bishop's spine just 
seeing the samurai's anger.  The face-off between the two runners 
lasted several seconds before Jinga broke is off.  The orc spun 
around and began leaping up the stairs two at a time.  Deveaux 
struggled unsuccessfully to keep up with the samurai's pace.  He 
soon fell behind, gasping for breath and stopping at each landing to 
rest.  Watkins easily outdistanced Bishop, who was already tired 
from casting his spell back at the lab.  The mage soon caught up 
with the detective and passed him by without a word.  As the mage 
passed him, Deveaux shook his head.  
	Bishop caught the detective on the third landing and they 
both stopped for a moment.  Concern showed in the detectives 
eyes.  The enmity between Jinga and the mage had been present all 
along, but Deveaux could not understand why Watkins had chosen 
that particular moment to bring it to the surface.  He had assumed 
Watkins was a professional and up until now he hadn't given the 
detective any reason to doubt it.  However, he actions in the last 
several minutes did not jibe with the mage's previous behavior.  He 
was acting like an amateur.   The move almost seemed calculated.  
Bishop shrugged, thinking the same thing.  If the orc got too caught 
up in the battle of wills, he could get careless.  A mistake now 
could cost all of the runners their lives.
	"What is going on, Rick?,"  Bishop managed between gasps.
	"Hell if I know, Bishop, seems our boy isn't as slick as we 
thought."
	"Where the hell did Sika dig him up?  I have never seen him 
on the streets before.  I just assumed he was reliable if Sika hired 
him."
	"It wasn't Sika, he is Kramer's chummer."
	"What?"  Bishop did not like that.  Kramer was not adept at 
dealing with runners and could have been easily duped.  "Why 
didn't Sika say something?"
	"Guess he figured it wasn't important.  He did have me dig 
some before he OK'd him.  He ain't no dirtier than any of us."
	"But he isn't one of us."  Bishop was cut short by the 
thunder of gunfire resounding in the stairwell.  The echoes made it 
impossible to determine how many people were firing, but however 
many it was, they were going full auto.   Bishop raced up the stairs 
with Deveaux behind him.  The two runners flew up the stairs with 
renewed energy, their systems pumping adrenaline.  Bishop turned 
a corner and nearly stumbled over Watkins.  The mage was curled 
up into a ball, hugging the steel banister just above the landing.  
The sound of gunfire was louder and more frequent here.  After 
sidestepping the mage and carefully mounting the remaining steps, 
Bishop could see Jinga.  The orc's HK was spewing a stream of 
bullets up, toward the exit.  The firing was dying off as Jinga 
carefully controlled his firing to preserve his ammunition.  Bishop 
hazarded a look around the curve of the stairwell and saw several 
bodies lying in front of the steel door leading out of the stairwell.  
The door peaked open and the Shaman saw the barrel of a rifle 
emerge and fire in Jinga's direction.  
	The orc sent the shooter scurrying back with a burst of well 
placed shots.  Sensing a break in the action, Bishop leaped to his 
feet and took a place next to the Samurai.  He pulled his Predator 
from inside his jacket and chambered a round.
	"How's biz, Jinga?"  The orc did not seem to notice the 
shaman until he spoke.
	"Could be better, took a couple when they jumped me."  
For the first time Bishop noticed a spreading red stain on the orc's 
left leg.  It wasn't a serious wound, but it had to hurt like hell.  A 
human would have probably been disabled by a large caliber round 
in the thigh, but orcs tended to be tougher than most humans and 
Jinga was tough , even for an orc.
	Fuzz jumped as Jinga fired his rifle again, sending another 
would-be attacker scrambling for cover.  As the gunman retreated, 
Deveaux reached the runners' position.
	"Hoi, Jinga, you look a little busy."
	"No thanks to that fraggin mage, where the hell is he."  
Deveaux and Bishop looked at each other but didn't respond.  
Picking up on the unspoken communication, Jinga spit.  "Hiding, 
just like a damn rat.  I warned Sika."
	Bishop tried to head off the argument, "is that the only way 
out."
	"Yep," the detective nodded, "and it gonna be mean now 
they know we here."
	Bishop did not know what to say next.  The first question 
that came to his mind was to ask what had happened.  He had 
better sense than to accuse Jinga of having a itchy finger while 
trapped in the stairwell.  The time for recriminations was after the 
mission was complete.  Right now the group's main concern was 
getting out of the complex with as little contact with the security 
forces as possible.  They seemed to be aware of the fake uniforms 
that the runners wore, so stealth was now a major concern.
	"Well," Jinga broke the silence, "any ideas?"
	"Straight up and out boys, before they get more troops on 
our butts."  Bishop and Jinga sighed, but they knew Deveaux was 
right.  If they did not get away soon, the entire Aztechnology 
security force would be waiting for them when they tried to make a 
break for the fence.  If the runners were going to do something, 
they had to do it soon.  Jinga nodded and held up his hand.  Blood 
from his wound covered his callused hands as he counted down on 
his fingers.  When the last finger went down, the runners leapt to 
their feet and rushed up the last flight of stairs.  
	Just as the orc reached the landing, the metal door began to 
swing open, but Jinga slammed it shut in a guard's face with a kick 
from his huge foot.  He sent a hail of bullets point-blank through 
the door and ripped it open.  Two uniformed guards lay in the 
corridor clutching various wounds.  Another was slumped, 
unconscious against the far wall, blood streaming down his face 
from a broken nose inflicted by Jinga's kick to the door.  There was 
no sign of further resistance.  Bishop turned to retrieve the mage 
from the stairwell, but before he took two steps he felt a heavy 
hand on his shoulder.
	"Bishop, where do you think you are going?"
	"To get Watkins, we can't leave him here."
	"Why not?  He knew the risks when he took the job.  I say 
let the Aztecs take care of him."  The orc was in no mood to play 
guardian angel to the peevish mage.
	"And let him spill his guts about us?"
	"He has a point, Jinga," the detective said.
	"OK, go get him, I'll keep an eye out here.  I don't want 
those Aztecs showing up at my flat with a mad on."  Jinga released 
the shaman's shoulder and turned to watch the corridor.  Bishop 
nearly flew down the stairs to get the mage, but when he reached 
the place the mage had been cowering, the mage was nowhere to be 
found.  Watkins must have panicked and gone back the way they 
had come.
	Bishop Checked his pistol again and started down the stairs 
again.  The stairwell was silent except for the sound of his sneakers 
slapping on the concrete stairs as he made his way down.  He 
descended the stairs until he reached the level of the lab.  He 
stepped over to the door and was about to open it when he heard 
voices coming from the other side.  The sound of several men 
arguing clearly carried through the steel door, but their words were 
muffled to the point where Bishop was unable to make out what the 
men were saying.  The only obvious thing was that either Watkins 
had gone even farther underground or he was now in the hands of 
the Aztechnology security forces.  Either way, he was beyond the 
shaman's ability to help.  The only thing Bishop could do now was 
save his own skin.  With renewed vigor, brought on by the thought 
of capture, Bishop hurtled up the stairs, two at a time.  He reached 
the top and did not stop running.  He burst into the corridor and 
collided with the orc who was crouched down.  Both runners ended 
up in a tangle on the floor.   The orc cursed and extracated himself 
from the mess.  He looked down at the shaman with an angry scowl 
on his face.
	"What the hell is your problem, I thought you were bringing 
the mage with ya?"
	Bishop sat up and shook his head to clear it.  The collision 
with the sturdy orc had stunned him.  After a few moments, Bishop 
recovered enough to sputter a response, "He's gone, I think they 
got him."
	"Good riddance, I say,"  Jinga snapped.  "One less person to 
split the loot with."
	"There may not be any loot to split.  The troops may be on 
their way up right now.  If we want to get out of here, we had 
better move it."  Bishop cursed the lack of a direct link with Sika, 
their group's decker.  If they could talk to him, they would have a 
better idea of where the security forces were.  The only thing Sika 
could do now was nudge them in the right direction.   The runners 
had sacrificed a more direct connection to the decker in favor of a 
more subtle approach.  They were paying for it now.
	Deveaux cursed and cocked his pistol as he caught the 
sound of a lot of boots stamping up the stairs the had just climbed.  
Jinga and Fuzz looked at each other and dismissed their anger.  The 
Aztec troops on their way up the stairs were the most direct threat 
to the team, any personal quarrels could be settled later.  Without 
warning the lights in the stairwell blinked out.  This was answered 
be curses from with the stairwell.  As if in response, the area was 
filled with a sharp hissing as the chemical fire extinguishers installed 
throughout the stairwell were switched on.
	"Sika, you slick fragger," Jinga cheered.  The troll decker 
had found a way to aid the runners during their escape.  Using the 
complex's internal systems, the troll was using the building against 
the Aztecs.  With their hope renewed, the runners dashed down the 
corridor, guns at the ready, and made their way toward the service 
exit where they were supposed to pick up Mr. Kramer.  His 
extraction was the only portion of the mission that the runners had 
not completed yet, but in some ways it was the most important.  If 
they were unable to get him out, the payoff would be sizably less. 
	The group passed through several empty hallways before 
coming to a dark section in a service corridor.  While Jinga and 
Bishop watched for guards, Deveaux tried the door.  It was 
unlocked and swung open at the detectives touch.  The inside of the 
room was dark and Deveaux couldn't see into the room more than a 
few feet.  He struggled for a moment to make out the shadowy 
shapes in the room, but gave up.  He searched for a light switch and 
after flicking it on and off decided it was useless.  Sika must have 
shut off the power to the room.
	"Jinga, I need your eyes.  I'll watch the hall."  The orc 
grunted and slipped into the room.  Deveaux switched places with 
the samurai , taking up a post next to Bishop in the hall.    "Do ya 
see anything, Jinga?"
	At first, the orc did not reply, then a low growl started in 
the back of his throat.  It rumbled deep down in the orc's chest and 
grew to a yell.  The shout startled the other runners and they 
whirled around to see what had upset the orc. Lights came on in the 
room revealing a group of armored men standing with their 
weapons in line with the orc.  The armor was painted in a yellowish, 
spotted pattern that resembled the pelt of a leopard.  Emanating 
from small spotlights mounted on the left shoulder of the armor, the 
halogen lamps shined into Jinga's eyes, blinding him temporarily.  
The armor covered almost their entire body, lending the troops an 
inhuman appearance.  Their faces were covered by boxy helmets 
with reflective face shields.  The helmets probably gave the guards 
the same ability to see in the dark as Jinga had.
	  Both runners whirled around at the shout of the orc's 
scream.  They only glimpsed the guards for a moment before they 
extinguished their spotlights.  Sika chose that instant to return the 
power to the room's lights.
	His wired reflexes just a bit faster than those of the Leopard 
guards, Jinga hit the floor and rolled to the left of the doorway.  His 
HK spat Teflon jacketed rounds into the gathered troopers, sending 
them into disarray.  His eyesight adjusting after the dramatic change 
in lighting, Deveaux pulled the trigger of his pistol, sending the 
guards into further confusion.  Magic coursed through Bishop Fuzz 
as he called upon the power of his totem to help dispatch he guards.  
Energy crackled from Bishop's left hand where a ball of light grew.  
He reached out toward the guards and released the ball of magical 
energy.  If flew toward the group, bursting as it struck one 
particularly unlucky man.  His armor smoked and melted where the 
sphere had struck.  He reeled back and landed in a pile on the floor.
	The rest of the Aztec's scattered, trying to find cover from 
the runners' murderous fire.  Bishop thought he could make out the 
shape of someone without armor diving behind a row of steel, 
storage lockers.  Most of the Aztec guards took up defensive 
positions behind the desks and file cabinets that filled the 
maintenance office.  After a moment, they began to return fire.  
Bishop and Deveaux ducked back out of the doorway to avoid the 
hail of bullets.  Jinga was not as lucky.  Although his prone position 
made it difficult for the guards to fire at the samurai from behind 
their cover, the guards shot wildly, hoping to strike the orc with a 
lucky shot.  Jinga cried out in pain as another bullet impacted with 
his already injured leg.  The shaman heard the orc's cry and peaked 
in to see if he could help.  
	The orc growled, angrier than Bishop had every seen him 
and jumped to his feet.  He charged the desk the guards were using 
for cover, oblivious to the bullets flying all around him.  Jinga 
staggered from several hits that failed to penetrate his kevlar jacket, 
but kept racing toward the desk.  He hit it with a crash, sending the 
guards behind it skidding into the lockers directly behind them.  
Jinga continued to push the desk with all of his might, shouldering 
it back toward the lockers.  The guards tried to scramble out of the 
way of the steel and flesh juggernaut, but a few were unsuccessful.  
	The heavy desk smashed into the lockers, pinning three 
guards.  Still leaning into the desk, Jinga raised his rifle and 
peppered the trapped men with armor piercing rounds.  Shards of 
ballistic plastic flew in every direction as the orc's gun chewed the 
guards to pieces.  One of the guards who had escaped his 
companion's fate steadied his auto-rifle and aimed it at the raging 
orc, intent on putting a few rounds into his unprotected head.  The 
leopard guard shuddered as a well placed shot from Deveaux's 
pistol burrowed into his neck where the helmet and the chest armor 
met.  With the danger of hitting their own men in a crossfire 
eliminated, the guards on the opposite side of the room opened up 
on the orc street samurai.  His armored jacket absorbed most of the 
punishment, but several rounds found its way into the orc's flesh, 
sending him to the floor in a heap.
	Satisfied that the major threat had been eliminated, the 
troopers, emerged from behind their cover, ready to fire at the 
other runners.  So intent on eliminating the remaining runners, the 
guards forgot about Jinga.  Fighting to stay conscious, the orc 
waited for them to pass him by.  With their backs to him, he opened 
fire once again.  Deveaux and Bishop recognized the sound of 
Jinga's HK, peered into the room and added their firepower to 
catch the guards in a grinding crossfire that made short work of the 
armored troopers.  As the last guard fell, a shadowy form slipped 
out from behind the row of lockers.  Bishop began to raise his 
pistol, but stopped when he realized it was the missing mage.
	"Watkins, thank the powers, how did you get away?"  
Bishop walked forward to greet the mage.
	"Escape, what on Earth do you mean?  I didn't escape."  
Bishop was puzzled by the mage's words, but all of his confusion 
evaporated as Watkins produced a nasty looking shotgun from 
within his long jacket.  "The game is over, you are pinched, now 
drop the guns."  Bishop and Deveaux complied with the order, but 
Jinga refused.
	"You bloody pink skin, you work for them."  Jinga launched 
himself at the mage and knocked the shotgun aside.  Pellets 
skittered off of the metal lockers, filling the room with a tinny 
rattle.  The gun spun out of the mage's grasp, landing in the corner 
of the room amidst the carnage.  The orc's face split in a gruesome 
smile and he raised his rifle.  Pressing it against the mage's forehead, 
he pulled the trigger.  The rifled answered with a hollow click, out 
of ammunition.  The mage reached out, grabbing the orc's massive 
arm and tired to grapple with the samurai. 
	Jinga laughed at Watkins' puny fighting skills, but his humor 
was cut short.  Pain shot up his left arm, sending sheets of fire 
through his nerves.  The agony brought the orc to his knees.  Magic 
flowed from the mage's hands and into Jinga's arm.  Slowly, the 
flesh began to melt off of the bones, then the bones liquefied, 
leaving behind a hideous soup of putrid tissue.  Bishop snatched up 
his Predator  from the floor and leveled it at Watkins.  It bucked in 
his hands as he pulled the trigger.  One of the rounds flew high, 
starling the mage.   The other slammed into his shoulder.  Watkins 
released what was left of Jinga's arm.  The mage twisted away from 
the shot and the orc slammed to the floor.  Staggered by the round's 
impact, the mage wobbled  as he rushed for cover behind the row 
of lockers.  The runners heard the opening of a door and the sound 
of Watkins' footsteps receding into he night.
	The shattered remains of an entire team of elite 
Aztechnology Leopard Troops lay scattered around the room.  The 
runners did not have time to gloat over their success.  Bishop was 
too concerned about Jinga.  The orc clawed at the remains of his 
ruined arm.  The destruction had stopped midway up his forearm, 
but blood continued to flow from the wound.  Bishop centered his 
thoughts and focused his remaining shamanistic powers on a 
healing spell to staunch the flow of blood from Jinga's arm.  The 
detective ripped the fake security uniform off and tore strips of 
cloth to use as makeshift bandages.  Their combined effort finally 
succeeded in stopping the flow of blood from the orc's arm. 
	The two runners helped the orc to his feet.  He nearly 
collapsed as the pain from his wounded leg slashed up his spine.  
Gritting his teeth, Jinga staggered forward, leaning on Bishop for 
support.  Deveaux stepped around the row of lockers, careful of an 
ambush by the mage.  He kicked open the door.  It slammed open 
to reveal a crumpled body. At first the detective though it might be 
Watkins, but after kneeling down to examine it, he discovered it 
was Mr. Kramer, the man they were supposed to extract from the 
employ of  the Aztechnology.
	He checked for a pulse, but found none.  Kramer was bound 
and gagged, trussed up like a Christmas present.  A clean, finger 
sized hole marred his otherwise normal face. The edges of the 
wound were cauterized, as if by a laser. The wound probably came 
from a custom weapon designed to dispatch its victim quickly and 
quietly.  Waving away the faint smell of burnt flesh, Deveaux 
motioned for the runners to proceed.   Half dragging Jinga, Bishop 
Fuzz trotted out of the building, following the detective into the 
relative cover of the manicured trees surrounding the complex's 
main building.  Jinga let out a loan moan at each step.  Bishop felt 
badly for his friend.  The pain from the mage's spell must have been 
excruciating.
	The runners squatted just inside the line of trees, watching 
for signs of more pursuit.  If the bodies in the office were 
discovered, the entire complex would go on alert.  It seemed that 
the plan so far had been to limit the knowledge of the break-in in 
order to deal with it without it becoming widely known.  It would 
not look good if the public discovered the ease with which a group 
of shadowrunners was able to breach the lofty Aztechnology 
security net and come very near to escaping with valuable data.  
This worked in the runners' favor.  As long as the alert was limited, 
they had a chance of slipping out past the normal security 
precautions.
	Trying to make it out with the Maxi-Taxi, as planned, was 
out of the question.  If Watkins was still alive he would have that 
exit blocked.  The gate where the runners had entered was probably 
being watched as well.  Their only choice was to throw out all of 
their plans and try to out think their pursuers.  The unpredictability 
might be enough to give the runners the edge.  While Bishop tended 
to the injured orc, Deveaux tried to recall as much as he could 
about the maps he had used to plan the original assault.  He 
struggled to remember as many details as possible.  He knew for 
sure that the stand of trees that they were hiding in surrounded the 
entire complex, broken only by occasional foot paths and wider 
breaks allowing traffic to pass through.
	The walls surrounding the complex were tall, but not 
impassable.  They were designed to keep unwanted visitors out by 
delaying them long enough for guards to arrive and deal with the 
problem.  Jinga was the big problem.  In his condition, he would 
never be able to make it over the wall without help and Bishop and 
Deveaux were far too week to aid the heavy orc over the wall.  
Getting past the wall was the hardest part of escaping.  Once out, 
the runners could easily lose themselves in the crowds outside the 
complex.  Even though it was late in the evening, Seattle never 
slept.  
	Throngs of people passed up and down the streets 
surrounding the Aztechnology, willing to fulfill all of the corps' 
employees' needs and desires.  Sub cultures dedicated to sating 
people's dark sides inevitably sprang up around large arcologies, 
allowing the residents to express their baser instincts without fear of 
becoming entangled in the Corporation's regulations.  It had been 
much the same during the previous century with military bases, 
surrounded by bars and brothels.  Suddenly, Deveaux got an idea.
	He called Bishop over and explained the plan as quickly as 
he could.  After finishing his whispered instruction, the detective 
rushed off into the trees, heading for the south wall.  As he watched 
the detective disappear into the darkness, he checked Jinga's 
condition.  The orc's breathing was more regular, but his face was 
pale, almost the color of aged ivory.  His eyes were closed and his 
jaw was set against the pain.     Fuzz decided to let the orc rest for 
a moment before they had to set out toward the south wall.  By the 
time they got there, Fuzz hoped, Deveaux would have completed 
his part of the plan and the runners would be on their way out of 
the complex.
	After pausing just long enough for Jinga to catch his breath, 
Bishop urged him forward.  They wended their way through the 
trees, careful not to stray on to any of the paths set aside for the 
corp workers' recreation.  Finally, the wall came into view.  It was 
eight feet tall and topped with decorative looking spikes.  Bishop 
knew that the spikes were for more than show.  The could easily 
pierce a careless intruder.  As the runners neared the wall, the trees 
grew more sparse.  he area directly bordering the wall was devoid 
of vegetation, making it difficult to find cover.  The only thing left 
to do was wait.  Bishop prayed to his totem that they were in the 
right place.  The wall was several city blocks long and Deveaux 
could choose almost any part of it to breach.  If they were lucky, it 
would be close to their position.  Jinga was near the end of his 
endurance.
	Minutes passed, seeming to take an eternity.  The silence 
was broken only by the orc's labored breathing.  Every so often 
Bishop caught a snatch of sound from the other side of the wall, the 
sound of people shouting mingled with the rush of traffic passing 
along the street outside.  For an instant, Bishop thought he could 
hear the shouts grow just a bit more insistent, but he dismissed it as 
his imagination.  The shaman's attention was drawn back to the 
injured orc by a renewed series of moans.  If Deveaux didn't act 
soon, the orc might not live long enough to enjoy his share of the 
take.
	Just when Bishop had resigned himself to the orc's death, 
the sound of screams burst from the other side of the wall.  The 
curses were soon followed by the sound of a revving engine.  The 
engine bellowed a deep growl, the growl of a large truck.  The 
sound moved closer, eliciting more curses form the gathered crowd.  
A smile spread across Bishop's face.  The sound could only mean 
one thing:  Deveaux had found their ticket out.
	Bishop hefted the big orc to his feet and waited for Deveaux 
to complete his plan.  Just as Bishop was able to steady Jinga, the 
wall several meters away exploded in a spray of ferrocrete.  The 
nose of a heavy transport truck emerged through the rubble like an 
armadillo  burrowing through dirt.  The detective was perched in 
the cab, motioning to the other runners with his pistol.
	"Let's go folks, Lone Star is gonna be here any time."
	Bishop helped Jinga up into the cab of the truck and quickly 
followed him in.  Before Bishop could even swing the door shut 
Deveaux threw the truck into reverse and gunned the engine.  The 
truck rumbled away from the wall, sending up another cloud of 
ferrocrete dust.  Horns sounded as the truck backed into the traffic 
passing the compound, but the detective ignored them, 
concentrating on keeping an eye out for pursuit.  
	Soon the sound of the sirens faded into the distance, leaving 
the cab of the truck strangely silent.    The two runners eyed the 
motionless orc, their faces filled with concern.  
	"Is he gonna make it, Bishop?"  Deveaux's normally jovial 
manner was missing.
	"I honestly don't know, Rick"  Bishop shook his head.  "I 
am out of spells and his is pretty shocky.  If we don't get him to a 
body shop he is flat lined."
	"The closest is Seattle General, but that's the first place they 
are gonna look.  Is he gonna make it to HMO?"
	"He's gonna have to."
	Without another word Deveaux headed the truck toward 
HMO.  The few extra blocks seemed to add an eternity to the trip.  
Finally, the building came into sight.  Deveaux drove the truck up 
onto the pavement, right up to the door.
	"Get him out, I gotta loose this monster," the detective sped 
off with the truck as soon as Bishop had Jinga free.  The shaman 
dragged the orc inside and shouted for help.  Doctors materialized 
everywhere, taking Jinga from Bishops arms.  One especially burly 
human lifted the orc on to gurney and began rolling him into the 
back room of the ward.  His disappeared though a pair of swinging 
doors surrounded by a frantic group of doctors.
	Bishop eyed the crowd in the lobby of the HMO and slipped 
into the restroom.  He entered one of the stalls and sat down on the 
toilet.  The last bit of energy flowed out of him as his adrenaline 
rush ebbed.  The fatigue brought on by the spells and the mission 
tumbled down on Bishop's shoulders all at once.  He almost 
swooned.  He sat there for what seemed like hours until he heard 
the door of the restroom open.
	"Excuse me! Are you the one who brought in the orc?"
	Bishop sprang to his feet and his hand flew to the gun 
stuffed in his waistband.  He pushed open the door of the stall and 
peered out.  A doctor in soiled scrubs stood in the doorway with a 
look of consolation on his face.
	"Did you bring in the orc?"  He asked again.
	"Yes," Bishop answered, "how is he?"
	The doctor paused for a moment, "I am sorry, but we were 
unable to save his hand."  After another pause he continued, "he is 
stable now, but the tissue damage was to extensive to reconstruct 
the limb.  We had to remove it below the elbow."
	Relief washed over Bishop.  One look at Jinga's arm had 
told Bishop that it wasn't salvageable, but he was alive.  Knowing 
Jinga, he would see this as a chance to pick up one of the deadlier 
prosthesis on the black market.  Bishop knew that the orc was 
going to be fine, but he was going to be hell on fire to finish what 
he had started on Watkins.  However, that was going to be another 
run in the shadows.

The End

                THE DONKEY THAT THOUGHT HE WAS CLEVER

   Once upon a time . . . a donkey thought he was very clever. Every day, his 
master harnessed him to a cart loaded with goods. They always went the same 
way to the village: along a wide path through the wood, down a gentle slope 
into farmland, then along the river to the ford and over the plain to the 
village.
   Since the route was always the same, the donkey's master had got into the 
habit of having a snooze on top of the cart while the donkey, who knew the way
by heart plodded on.
   Feeling unwell one day, the man decided to risk sending the donkey by 
himself with a load for urgent delivery. When the animal returned, he was 
given a double ration of oats as reward.
   "Since you're so clever at remembering the way," the man said, "I'm going 
to send you alone always, then I can do other jobs!" And from then on, in all
kinds of weather, the donkey travelled to the village by himself. His master
was delighted.
   However, one morning, when the donkey reached the river, he decided to
shorten his journey by wading across the water. But he entered the river at a
deep spot, much deeper than the donkey expected, and he had to swim against
the current.
   Luckily, he was carrying a load of salt day, and some of it dissolved in 
the water, easing the donkey's load, so that he reached the other side without
much difficulty. "I am clever," said the donkey, pleased with himself. "I've 
found short cut."
   Next day, the man loaded the cart with sponges, and the donkey set off as 
usual. When he arrived at the river, he again thought he would take the short 
cut, and entered the water as he had done the day before. But this time, the 
sponges soaked up the water and made the cart heavy, so that the poor animal 
could not keep his head above water. And in spite of all his efforts, the 
donkey that thought he was so clever, sank below the surface of the water 
together with his load.

                  THE COUNTRY MOUSE AND THE TOWN MOUSE

   Once upon a time . . . a town mouse, on a trip to the country, met a 
country mouse. They spent the day together and became friends. The country
mouse took his new friend into the meadows and vegetable gardens, making him
sample all the good things of the land. Never having seen the beauties of the
countryside, the town mouse was thrilled, though the country mouse's plain
food wasn't nearly as fine as his own usual meals. To thank his friend for the
lovely outing, he invited the country mouse to visit him in the town. And when
the country mouse saw the pantry at his friend's house, full of hams, cheese, 
oil, flour, honey, jam and stacks of other goodies, he stood speechless with
surprise.
   "I've never seen anything like it! Are all those wonderful things for 
eating?"
   "Of course!" came the re-ply. "You're my guest, so tuck in!" They began to
feast, while the country mouse tried not to stuff himself. He wanted to taste 
everything before finding his tummy full.
   "You're the luckiest mouse I've ever met!" said the country mouse to his 
town brother. The town mouse was listening with delight to his friend's 
praise, when suddenly, the sound of heavy footsteps interrupted their feast.
   "Run for it!" whispered the town mouse to his friend. They were just in 
time: for within an inch of them stood the lady of the house's large foot.
Luckily, the lady went away and the two mice returned to enjoy their meal, so
rudely interrupted.
   "It's all right! Come on!" said the town mouse."Don't worry. She's gone.
Now for the honey! It's delicious! Have you ever tasted it?"
   "Yes, once, a long time ago,"the country mouse lied, trying to sound
casual. But when he tasted it, he exclaimed: "Scrumptious! By the King of
Mice! I ve never eaten anything so lovely in all my life!"
   Suddenly there came the sound of footsteps, this time thumping heavily. The
two mice fled. The man of the house had come to fetch some bottles, and when he
saw the spilt honey, he groaned: "Those ghastly mice again! I thought I've got
rid of them. I'll send the cat!" And trembling with terror, the mice hid away.
This time it was not only the sudden visit that had given them a fright, it
was the man's awful words. The mice were so scared, they held their breath, 
making no sound. Then, since all remained quiet, they began to feel braver,
and picked up enough courage to leave their hidey-hole.
   "We can come out now! There's nobody here!" the town mouse whispered.
   Suddenly, the pantry door creaked, and the two luckless mice froze in fear.
Out of the dim light glowed a pair of horrid yellow eyes. A large cat was 
staring round the room in search of its prey. The country mouse and the town 
mouse tiptoed silently back to their hidey-hole. They wished their pounding 
hearts would stop beating, for fear of the cat hearing the noise they made. 
But, as luck would have it, the cat discovered a juicy sausage. Forgetting why
his master had sent him into the pantry, he stopped to eat it. No longer 
hungry, after that, the cat decided that he might as well leave mouse-hunting 
for another day. Off he padded, to have forty winks elsewhere. Now, as soon as
the country mouse realized that all danger was past, he did not lose a second.
He hastily shook hands with his friend, saying: "Thanks so much for everything!
But I must rush off now! I can't stand all these shocks! I's far rather sit
down to a meal of a few acorns in peace, in the country, than face a great
spread of delicious food, surrounded by dangers on all sides and with my heart
in my mouth!" 

[][][][][][][][][][][][][][][][][][][][][][][][][][][][][][][][][][][][][][][]
[]	The Blab Fantasy novel-Ripped off and edited by The Slipped Disk.   []
[][][][][][][][][][][][][][][][][][][][][][][][][][][][][][][][][][][][][][][]

  This is the Fantasy Novel.  Bear the burden wisely.  It is the land of
Fantasia, where anything and anything is the effect of someone's imagination.
The mind controls all.	Wizards and sorcerors fill the land along with many
other creatures of many different races.  Hobbits, Orcs, and even Smurfs, just
to name a few.	The land was green and blooming with all sorts of flowers and
berries, for it was Spring, and the little creatures were gathering food.  And
one fateful night, a baby human was born with the gift of sorcery that was
inherited be every other son in his family.  His name was Timkin, and he had a
lot to learn ahead of him.
----------------------------------
  The twang of the long yew bow was followed quickly by the swish of the
brightly feathered arrow.  The blond youth stifled a gasp as the arrow imbedded
itself in the tree directly in front of his head.  Dropping into a crouch, the
ing blue eyes into the brush.  With a wave of his hand, the boy caused the
arrow to pull itself out of the tree and fly back whence it came.

  Thinking to himself that this would be the last time he could actually go out
and practice, he should make the best of it.  It was his time of "Hurrjik".
Anyone youth who becomes sixteen years must go out into the forest and prove
himself a man.	His time was near, as
by first light tommorow, he would reach
16 years.  He knew of the responsibility, but did not fear it.	His powers
were stronger than the usual, and he
believed he would do well.

   The boy stood up and slowly walked back to the village.  He greeted an old
woman who was sitting near the village walls.

   "Good day to you, old Mutretha.  How are you?"

   The old woman looked up and frowned.  "I am as well as I will ever be.  And
what of you, boy?  Are you ready for
your test, tommorow?"

   "I am ready, old woman.  The power will help me as I see fit."

   "Be not naive, boy.  The power in you is that of a egg, as to a dragon.
You were gifted to be born with the power, but learning to use it is another
tale."

   "I have learned well through your tutorings.  Is that not enough?"

   "Ha!  Simple conjuring tricks.  What will happen when you need to turn
silver into water?  Can you do that, boy?"

   The boy's face filled with rage.  "Enough of this.  I waste my time talking
to and old hag."

   He started off toward his dwelling.

   "One thing, boy."  He stopped and looked around.

   "When you find the silver rod, be not greedy.  Many have longed for such
a prize, and have never been seen again."

   "Silver rod?  What is this nonsense?"

   "You will know when you find it.  And one last thing---"

   "What?" said the boy intently.

   "The power in you can do your bidding.  But it can also be turned against
you." she said.

   He stood there for a moment, staring at the old woman who he really cared
about, even though they argued a lot.

   She seemed to drift off into a deep sleep.  The boy stood to leave and took
her hand.  "Thank you" he said.  When the woman didn't reply, he looked down
at her face.  "Old Woman?"

   "Take the ring," she said.  In her hand lay a golden ring with a strange
symbol on it.

   "Wear it, always.  And do not give in to the temptations of evil."   With
that she slumped forward and collapsed.  He knelt beside her, listening for a
heart-beat.  There was none.

    Cursing quietly to the gods, he turned the ring over in his hand.  While
the symbol seemed not to have been anything designed by a human mind, the
stone looked like a normal piece of quartzite, albeit a highly poilished,
many-faceted piece.  He wasn't sure, but he thought he glimpsed something,
maybe a small flaw, inside the stone.  In any event, it was too small a flaw
to see unless one was looking closely.

  Standing up, he put the ring on his right pinky finger, which was the only
finger it would fit on.  Cursing again the gods that took the old woman, he
started toward the Dwelling of Healing.  Those inside would deal with the
corpse.

  The boy Timkin wandered off to confer with the village elders as to how to
care for the corpse in a way that their race had been accustomed to.  But,
though he was saddened, he found this death to be a new beginning.  He was the
apprentice who would carry on her teachings, and he would prove all this
tomorrow at "the testing".

  He had heard that there was to be a grand competition among the youngers of
his race to see who would fulfill the quest that his tutor had briefly alluded
to.  They would meet in the grand hall of the kingdom and try to puzzle one
another with tricks until one was proclaimed a winner by topping and baffling
all others--a grand tournament!  But, that's all he knew since it was a long
time since the last such event.

  As night approached, he hurried back to his own dwelling and practiced his
magic a little as he chanted in strange verse, creating a bed, pillow, and
other things that began to fly around the room.  At last (these things are
tiring on the mind & soul), Timkin slept with the anticipation of the big day
to come.

  That night, a lonely unicorn grazed near the village.  She had been told that
a boy would come to him the next day, and she had instructions to take him to
Mafher's lair.

  As he slept, his dreams began to take him to places that were not yet known
to his waking being.  He saw the sea, with white capped waters over the deep
blue.  He saw an occasional ship pass silently across the water, wind its sails
yet, crew was seen.  Timkin saw land beginning to form ahead of him, and he
could hear the shrill call of a tern, as it scavenged the beaches for food.
Then he awas in a thick, dark jungle.  Deeper into the jungle he was drawn,
until the light of the sun was totally shaded from sight by the thick foliage.
Timkin heard a voice calling him, as he saw a clearing.  As he drifted closer,
he could barely make out a strange looking obelisk in the center of this little
sun drenched clearing in the middle of the jungle's darkest reaches.  Again he
heard his name being called, only this time the voice grew louder.  Timkin then
opened his eyes, and realizing it was just a dream, rolled over and tried to go
back to sleep.	But he heard the voice call him again.	It seemed to come from
in his room.

   "Timkin!  Timkin, awake! I It is the time!" said her mother.

   Timkin's eyes shot open.  A glowing aura encircled his body.  "I am awake,
Mother."

   She looked at him proudly.  His tall, well built chest, strong muscles, and
a face beaming with intelligence, he had a very good chance of passing he test.

  He arose and pulled his tunic over his chest.  His hands went to a symbol
embroided on his left breast.  A unicorn with a halo around it's head, since he
was a boy the symbol had always been a mystery.  Now he had the feeling he
would find out what it was about.  He started to wash his face and chest.  He
started to walk to the Grand Hall where the tournament would take place.  As he
got nearer, he saw many young lads preforming tricks with the greatest of ease.
Some were pretty simple, like making eggs fly around in thin air ot or perhaps
making a stone bleed.  Some of the more complex were those of changing one's
form and doing incredible acrobatic feats.  The latter scared Timkin a little,
but he felt he didn't have much to fear since he was confident in his training.
There were many wizened elder standing by giving hints to their apprentices
while the middle-aged people were betting on who would be the winner.

  As he entered the Great Hall, timkin shivered slightly, but was able to
repress more noticeable reaction to the obvious tension in the hall.  A hush of
silence took over the room, but he wasn't sure if it was related to his
entrance.  A village elder, a priest, took him by the arm almost as soon as he
entered, and Timkin wondered if he were late.  Everyone else was already seated
as though waiting for him.  The Hall was nearly one hundred meters in length,
domed at the top by a darkened hemisphere.  The area in the center, basically a
dirt floor, was entirely empty with the exception of a small glass sphere lying
in the dirt in the center.  Rising on one side of the Hall were the spectator
stands where the entire village, with no exception - save old Baldimir - sat in
tense silence.	Above the spectators at each level of padded stone benches were
massive wall sconces housing bright fires that kept the entire room above the
level of darkness, but only barely.  On the sice opposite the seats were
sixteen doors placed at regular intervals, and the one heavy bronze door at the
center.  Each of the doors led to the chamber of one of the village elders, but
he had never seen the center door used.  This, he suspected that might change
this day.  The priest drew him to the center, just behind the glass globe,
facing the audience.  The priest bowed and walked away slowly, smoothing out
his cloak in an uncharacteristic expression of agitation.  A distinct chill
shot through Timkin's back as the globe glowed breifly, and he felt compelled
to turn around.  The Bronze door had parted, in the middle, and swept a wave of
chill air into the arena.  Timkin strode surely towards the gaping blackness
beyond the double doors, feeling the weight of the darkness and the audience's
silence heavily.  As he passed beyond the threshold, he had time for one quick
glance backwards before the doors came solidly shut, as if there had never been
a part between them.  For an interminable length of time, young Timkin walked
aimlessly, wondering whether he had trudged miles, or only inches.  It made no
difference, he thought.  There was no distinction in this place.


    The sleeping unicorn's eyes shot open.  Standing in front of her was an
old, wickid figure with an auroa of evil.  She jumped to her hooves and bowed
in respect.

    "You, Hyuteri.  You must now go and find the boy," said the figure.

    "He is the son of my Father's rider.  I will not let him be harmed," said
the unicorn.

    The ancient figure glared at her.  His entire being began to glow with
hatred.
  At long last, young Timkin saw a cool glow coming from a distinct direction.
He approached it slowly, feeling its cold take over his emotions, toy with his
growing frustration.  But he kept walking, oblivious to how he was being
manipulated.

  Meanwhile, out in the arena, all eyes were focused on the glass globe in the
center.  It had taken on an ambigious half-glow, and settled there.  The deadly
silence which permeated the room was broken only by an occasional cough or
wheeze.  But not a single eye among the tens of thousands wavered in its
expectant survey of the small glass globe.  The cool but comfortable air that
circulated in the room seemed to have magical qualities, though it was largely
the same air that had been here for the last use of the arena, seventy-three
years ago.  It seemed only a few moments later that the globe flickered breifly
and then returned to its previous state.  Everyone in the room drew in a
breath, as the entire assembly shared both mind and body.  But it was the globe
that was the center of attention.  It flickered brighter for a second and then
nearly died.  Then, it came back brighter than ever, and died out once more.
With every minute change in its glow, the apprehension in the room grew.  No
one dared take their eyes from the globe for even a fraction of a second.  It
brightened, then withdrew, then brightened, then dimmed once again.  The
patterns were random, indecipherable.  A few of the faint of heart collapsed
near the upper levels.	The room itself seemed to spin every time the globe
underwent another of its wild fluctuations.  The rest of the room blurred to
the audience as the globe became the only thing left in the world.  The globe,
and the door too.  The door behind it was unremitting in its harshness.
Suddenly, the light wavered, then shone out like it had never done before, even
in all its eternal past, and held.  The stifled gasps were barely held in check
and some of the onlookers had to concentrate hard to remain conscious.	The
globe had become a beacon in the darkness, and now lit up the entire room, in
all its immensity.  The silence that took the room was sudden and undeniable.
It was forty minutes later than the giant bronze doors opened to the tiniest of
cracks.  Bleary eyes lit up with expectation, unaffected by the relentlessness
of the vigil.  Without warning, the doors nearly burst at their ancient seams.
They slammed against the wall, and shattered, scattering bronze splinters about
the arena.  A hush fell over the crowd.  At first, the doorway was empty, and
no one dared breathe.  Then, without warning, Timkin stepped out and raised his
arms high above his head.  The crowd cheered deafeningly.  This was the night
of Timkin, and as he strode to the center of the arena and raised the orb high
above his head, all watched in awe.  Their new leader had been born.


  Koora completed the Dawn Rites.  She picked up her small pack, and donned the
cloak that marked her as a journeywoman preistess, then proceeded to the path.
The road was not well worn; it was ragged from newness and unscarred by wagon
wheels.  Not unusual, for her training took her far from the School.  To be a
student of Light entailed being magistrate, healer, and teacher as well as
servant of the power.  She loved it in spite of the demands.  It was a joy
helping tend harmony.  She smelled the earthy air appreciatively.  From the
corner of her eye, Koora noticed a raven.  Watching, she increased her pace,
then stopped quickly, feingning a trip.  Yes, the bird was following her.  For
what purpose the Dark had sent one of it's minions, she did not know, but an
instinctive fear stirred within her.  She ran, and felt a sharp biting pain on
her shoulder.

  Koora screamed in terror.  A loud squawk was heard as the raven perched upon
her shoulder, the claws digging into her flesh.  Koora fell to the ground, too
surprised to use any of her powers, and just then, the bird flew around her and
landed in front of her on the path, blocking her way.  then, the raven began to
grow, changing first into a blackish blob which grew bigger and began to rise
as a column of smoke formed around it.	As the figure began to take shape, it
appeared to be in the form of a male creature of some human form with an
elaborate green and red costume with bells at the top....and little feet that
looked like they belonged to Kermit the frog.  obviously, this guy wasn't an
evil being!  He kneeled down, and said in a magical language that only Koora
could translate..."I have been ordered to deliver something to you." She tried
to still her inner turmoil before glancing upward.  After acheiving some slight
calm she picked herself up, cataloging the damages she had ceived.
  "What is it you bear?  Surely you know I do not accept the gifts of
  dakrness." She mentally scanned the individual, and to her surprise
encountered a
  complete block.  This was new!  Not a though, not a single residue of emotion
escaped from behind the barrier!  She yearned to know more, but knew she would
  not.	The Power forbade prying.  She would have to wait, and learn.  The
creature responded....
  "I am only a messenger...you are needed..you must heed our commands as only a
person of your powers would fulfill our purpose."
  with these words, the funny-looking creature made a few strange gestures and
mumbled a few incantations, and
  a large crate appeared on the ground.  "This will contain all the information
you will need..
  remember, you really don't have any choice, but to follow our
command...besides, we will make it worth your while"
  and he vanished, leaving behind only the crate...and from inside, a strange
sort of growling sounds were heard.


                            Lionbirds
                    by Martin R. Crim (1994)

This is the rationalist view:
     The lionbird is a species of eagle which travels and hunts
in prides.  Prides take prey of all sizes from pigeons to bison,
and also eat carrion.  Each pride has a king, or alpha male,
several subordinate males, and many females.  Many young males
leave the pride to travel in bachelor packs, and eventually join
prides other than those of their birth.  Their secretive breeding
habits have led to the legend that they hatch their eggs in
heaven.  This legend is disproved by the occasional sighting of a
lionbird in Fire Season, when they supposedly are all in heaven. 
Their plumage is tawny.  Males have golden crests, and the king
always has the largest crest in the pride.  Kings live only a
year, worn out by monopolizing the mating.  Lionbirds have a
group song, sometimes heard by humans, which is alien but
rhythmic.

This is the theistic view:
     The lionbird is one of the oldest children of Vrok.  It was
one of the favorites of Murharzarm and he often hunted with it. 
The lionbird pride emulates the divine order of Yelm, with a
king, several subordinates, and males over females.  The male's
golden crest is a special blessing from Vrok, and sign of his
favor.  It is regicide to kill a king lionbird, ignoble to slay
any male lionbird, and bad luck even to disturb a pride.
     The sky gods use lionbirds as messengers to mortals, for
they travel to the sky once a year, in Fire Season.  Outlaw birds
must remain behind on the earth.  When the prides reach heaven,
old kings retire there forever.  One male in each pride finds the
divine meal which makes him the new king.  The females bear the
new king's eggs and hatch them near the end of Fire Season.  The
eggs are gold in color, but not metallic.  Fed on fire berries
and the meat of heavenly animals, the young grow fast.  At the
end of Fire Season, the females push the young out of their
nests, and the fledglings must learn to fly as they plummet
toward the earth.  The pride follows, calling out instructions to
the young ones.  Those who learn to fly join the pride.  Those
who do not, plunge into the sea.  This represents the virtue of
Justice.
     The lionbirds sing, representing the virtue of Harmony. 
Their song often reveals messages from heaven to those with the
wisdom to understand.  To hear their song is a blessing, and
bound to bring the same joy of the heart which the sun brings
when he bursts through clouds.
     Sheng Seleris was accompanied in much of his career by a
pride of lionbirds who brought him messages from the sky gods. 
They sang to him each morning, and he interpreted their songs to
his companions.  Other solar heroes, mostly of the Golden and
Silver Ages, had friendly lionbird prides. 
     Lionbird feathers are good for many Light, Fire, Harmony,
Life, and Death magics.  Crest feathers are best.  Pentian kings
need lionbird feathers for their head-dresses.

This is the game view:
Lionbirds are medium-sized eagles.  Their keen sight and high
intelligence would make them good familiars and allied spirits,
but they grow lonely away from their pride and sometimes pine
away and die.  A lone bird lives no more than five years in
captivity, less if caged or wing-clipped.  Allying an entire
pride is possible, if one gains the friendship of the king. 
However, the whole pride then flies away in late Sea Season.  The
king does not return, so neither does the pride (in most cases).
     An adventurer can use Falconry (a/k/a Hawking) to train a
lionbird.  Training is easier if the trainer wears a yellow
feather crest on his hat or helm.  The lionbird song is
instinctive, however, and training cannot change it.  Using
Falconry on a king lionbird carries a 50 percentile penalty.
     The statistics below are for an average male, which is about
.8 meters long, beak to talons, and has a 2 meter wingspan (about
the size of a bald eagle).  The king has a SIZ of 4 (1.1 meters
long and 3 meter wingspan--the size of a California Condor).  The
king has a STR of 18 and INT of 5, and POW above 12.  Average
females are .7 meters long, with a 1.8 meter wingspan and STR
2D6+4, but are otherwise the same as average males.  The smallest
young observed are SIZ 2 (.6 meters long, 1.5 meter wingspan).

characteristics     Average
STR  2D6+5            12           Move: flying 12, walking 1
CON  2D6+3            10           
SIZ   3                3           Hit Points          7
INT   4                4
POW  3D6             10-11
DEX  3D6+18          28-29

Hit location        Melee (D20)    Missile (D20)       Points
R Leg               01-02          01                  0/2
L Leg               03-04          02                  0/2
Abdomen             05-07          03-06               1/3
Chest               08-09          07-11               1/3
R Wing              10-13          12-15               0/2
L Wing              14-17          16-19               0/2
Head                18-20          20                  1/3

Weapon     SR       Attack %       Damage
Dive      Special   45+10          2D6
Claw        7       60+10          1D6
Peck       10       45+10          1D3

Note: Lionbirds Dive to kill small prey or to wound larger prey. 
Lionbirds attack large foes (SIZ 4 and up) in a group, with some
distracting the foe while others Dive and then claw and peck. 
The distraction subtracts 5% from the target's skills for each
lionbird in the attacking group, up to 75%.  Each lionbird that
closes gets a Dive attack.  If the prey does not effectively
attack back, the lionbird stays near it and gets Claw and Peck
attacks in the next round.  If the prey tries to attack back, the
Lionbird wheels away, climbs, and gets another Dive attack on the
sixth round after the last Dive.  Lionbirds never suffer a damage
penalty for STR + SIZ when using natural weapons.

Skills: Dodge 80+19, Scan 100-6, Search 100-6.
Armor: 1 point feathers on abdomen, chest, and head.


Random note: The mongols used Golden Eagles to hunt wolves, and
the weight to strength ratio of raptors is much higher than
represented in the RQ rules.  Change the Hawk stats on page 24 of
the RQ Creatures Book to STR 2D6+2 for hawks and STR 2D6+5 for
eagles.  The strength of raptors is concentrated in their talons
and flight muscles, however, and a normal human could wrestle one
pretty easily as long as he guarded against the beak and talons.

                               THE PARROT SHAH

   Once upon a time . . . hundreds of years ago, there lived a brave young 
Shah. His counsellor was a very old wise Minister called Saleb. 
   Like all his subjects, the Shah worshipped the God of Reason. Every day, he
went to the temple he had built close to the palace. In response to the 
prayers, the God gave the Shah good advice on the difficult art of government.
Indeed, the kingdom had never been so well ruled and had become very 
prosperous. One day, at the end of his first visit, the Shah was amazed to 
hear the God's deep voice say: "You no longer need my advice. You are wise 
enough. You can keep on praying to me, but this is the last time you will 
speak to me. But before I leave you to Fate, I will grant you a wish. Anything
you ask will be given to you."
   On his knees before the statue, the Shah thought for a long time before 
replying. Then he said: "Oh, God who rules over us all, thank you for all you 
have done for me and my people. Give me the power to transfer my soul into the
body of another man or animal, whenever I want. And let my own body remain 
intact till I enter it again."
   "It shall be so," said the God. "Now listen carefully . . ." Back at the 
palace, the Shah quickly called the Chief Minister.
   "Would you believe it, Saleb! In his infinite goodness, the God has given 
me his trust and a great power . . ." and he told his counsellor all about it.
The old man, however, had great doubts about the wisdom of this, but he hid 
his feelings.
   "This strange incredible thing could change my master's whole life and 
destiny," the old man told himself. "I must do my best to make sure he doesn't
alter his ways and makes no dangerous changes. What he needs is a wife and 
family to keep him from making risky decisions. It only takes strange deeds to
ruin good government.
   Far beyond the mountains bordering on the Shah's kingdom lay a great 
fertile plain, the realm of an old king, who had an only daughter named Gala. 
Gala was young and beautiful and so sweet and gentle that her father hated the
thought of letting her get married. The Court, however, was eager to see her a
bride. The king was very possessive and wanted to keep Gala all to himself, 
and with the help of a wizard, he had thought up a plan to discourage her 
suitors. A magic tree was planted in the garden, a huge pomegranate that had 
three fruits. At sunset, the branches bent over to touch the ground and the 
fruit split open. Inside each lay a soft feather bed. Gala, the princess, 
slept in the middle one, with her servants on each side. The fruit closed over
the maidens and the branches swung back to the sky, carrying the princess high
above all danger. Seven walls were built round the garden, each studded with 
thousands of spikes which nobody could ever cross. The king sent out a 
proclamation:
   "Any man wishing to marry my daughter must be noble, rich and handsome. But
he must also succeed in picking the fruit in which the princess sleeps. Yet, 
if he falters in trying to cross the seven circles of spikes, he will be left 
to die." As it so happens, the Shah's Chief Minister decided that the princess
would make a good wife for his master. As time went by, many flne brave 
warriors perished on the spikes guarding the enchanted garden. Saleb, however,
was sure that the special divine powers of the Shah would help him to overcome
any obstacle. So he wanted to persuade the Shah to try and win the princess's 
hand. Every day, Saleb described the trials men had to go through to reach the
king's daughter, and to begin with, the Shah was amused by such stories. Then
he became curious and began to ask questions himself. The clever Minister told
his master of the princess's beauty and all about her brave suitors. In the 
end, the Shah began to fall in love with the girl he had never seen, just by 
hearing so much about her. In no time at all, he began to pore over ways of 
reaching the fruit. And the Chief Minister was delighted to hear of the Shah's
plans.
   Next day, the Shah ordered a large, brightly feathered parrot with a strong
beak to be brought to him. He had decided to use his own magic powers, and he 
said to Saleb:
   "My soul is going to enter this parrot, but my lifeless bodyy wlll return. 
Watch over it day and night till I come back."
   After a long prayer to the God of Reason, the Shah did everything he had 
been told and fell into a deep sleep. His breathing grew fainter and fainter 
till it died away and he lay still on the bed. Watching worriedly, Saleb saw 
that the parrot, which had been sitting quietly on its perch, was now flapping
its wings wildly.
   The parrot quickly reached the mountain. The air was cold and he flapped
heavily upwards  but the highest peak was soon left behind. Far below lay the
turrets of the palace and the glinting of thousands of spikes. Somehow, the 
parrot struggled across tne rows of sharp steel and landed safely beside the 
magic tree.
   The sun was setting when Gala and her two servants stepped into the fruit
for the night. As the pomegranates closed, the calls of the three maidens rang
in the ears of the Parrot Shah, and in the second before they shut, he caught 
a fleeting glimpse of the beautiful princess. Her gleaming dark eyes seemed to
smile at him. Then the branches rose into the air and the fruit shrank back to
their normal size. As they pointed upwards, the parrot sprang into the air 
and, with a blow of his strong beak, ripped the pomegranate containing the 
princess from its branch. Clutching the fruit in his claws, he flew off into 
the night.
   The twinkling stars lit the Parrot Shah's path home. This time it was hard 
to cross the mountain, but the parrot felt neither cold nor fatigue, for he 
could still picture Gala's lovely face. As he gripped the magic pomegranate, 
the parrot knew that it was hindering his flight, and his wings grew weary and
slow. In panic, he felt he was going to drop the fruit, but the thought of 
Gala's eyes filled him with new strength. Suddenly he saw the valley. He was 
over the mountain. Now, he had to find the energy to go on and re-enter his 
own body. And then admire Gala, the bride of his dreams.
   Saleb had been watching at the window, left open day and night, and 
guarding his master's lifeless body. Full of remorse at having coaxed the Shah
into undertaking such a dangerous mission, the poor Minister had never stopped
praying. Suddenly, he leapt to his feet:
   "Thank Heavens!" he cried. "At last! At last! . . " The stars were fading 
and the sun coming up, tinting the clouds with pink, when the parrot appeared.
Gently laying its preclous burden on the bed, the bird went back to its 
perch... and the Shah's body came slowly to life. Saleb threw himself in 
front of his master.
   "Sire!" he gasped. "I've been so afraid. I thought I'd never see you 
again." The magic worked as the sun rose over the horizon and its first rays 
shone through the window. The pomegranate began to grow and grow as it did 
each morning, then it gently opened and out stepped Gala, smiling.
   "Where am I? How did I get here?" she gasped in surprise. The Shah clasped 
her hand and kissed it fleetingly.
   "You're in your future husband's palace!" The Chief Minister clapped his 
hands in delight. The wedding took place the very next day and the couple 
ruled happily ever after.
From that day, all the parrots in the Shah's kingdom were treated with great 
respect. A parrot was even included in the royal coat-of-arms and fluttered 
from the army's banners, while to all the people it was a sacred symbol.


" Where the secrets start, the republic stops. "
                         --Norman Thomas

THE QUARANTINE
By Moses Domingo

          Welcome to the good old U.S.A.!! Land of the gangs, land of the
ignored and the deprived; the land of dead soil, nuclear weapons and an
illiterate population.It feels just great to be an American---to go outsideand
walk upon the dead and trampled; to stretch your arms out and inhale the dry
air; to walk through a field and pretend there are trees---doesn't it just feel
great ?
          Where are my manners ? Hello, my name is Joe Simmons, and I'm a
drummer. Please---enter " JOE'S WORLD  OF 2053 "---where nightmare is a reality
!
          It has been over a month since my suicide attempt, and I still shudder
at the thought of my trying to blow my brains out. That same day, I went to the
cemetery and  visited the graves of my family and my girlfriend. As I stood
there,I would occasionally look up at the sky--- rather, the atmospheric-shield
simulation of a sky---and prayed that it would actually rain. Not just to set
the  perfect mood, but to give everyone on Earth a big break.
          I waited in silence. It seemed like decades.....
          Nothing....nothing but my foolish imagination. I mean, why would it
ever rain on Earth again ?
          Like the "sky", I did nothing and began the slow journey home.
          That was Secondmonth.

          This is Thirdmonth. There was a riot of tremendous numbers of people
not far from the cubicle where I live. Some of the rioters had techno-machine
guns, but they weren't really using them.
          Well, that's what I thought.
          In full view, I witnessed two people drag out the sector's
ration-distributor onto the street. There was an  argument between the three of
them. The two gun-toting people proceeded to place the ration-distributor
against a wall. It appeared as though he pleaded with them. One of them
literally shoved his pistol into the ration-distributor's mouth; the other, in
his chest.
          I watched in horror as, simultaneously, they pulled their triggers.
          They blew the body into oblivion---a headless man
quivering and swimming in blood.
          " Holy shit," I thought. I didn't know what I was going to say next
because I suddenly keeled over.
           Catching sight of me, the rioters started and,  pointing their guns,
ran towards me but halfway they stopped in horror. One of them said " Look ! "
and then ran away, the others right behind him.
          In turn, I got up and spun around--only to find  something standing
in my way. I practically ran into it--- whatever it was---and fell down in the
process. As I looked   up, a dim glare covered my face.
          It was the glare of an Order-droid.
          Seven feet of metal leaned over me and scanned me with an intelligence
so cunning and evil that I broke into a cold sweat. Its' infra-red scanning
light panned down me a couple of times. I wanted to run, but the same thoughts
must have been relayed to the Order-droid because it suddenly  lashed out one
of its clamp arms around my ankle.
          " I am self-named S'neta, Order-droid/Riot controller model numbered
8892467122215983117. You have been witnessed and observed as a provoker of this
food riot---"
          " What do you m---"
          "---Do not attempt to escape or to avoid me in any way."
          " What the fu--"
          "--Now I must prepare you for interrogation." With these words, it
extended an internal "hand". It looked like  a closed fist which was now opening
up---its fingers fully extended. Needles popped out of their ends, dripping with
some kind of transparent fluid. With a quick swing of its  forearm, the
Order-droid punctured the area around my chest.
           Instantly, I blacked out into what I thought was  death.


         
          " What is the subject's name ?"
          " DNA Identification-Print is verified. The subject's name is Joseph
Berkin Simmons, age is unknown due to inaccuracy of true birthdate, although
external features suggest that the subject is between 20 to 30 years old. Joseph
Berkin Simmons is the only remaining member of the  Simmons---it is believed
that his parents died the first year of The Quarantine; the death of his two
brothers and  one sister, named respectively Johnathan Jacob Berkin Simmons,
aged 10; Isaak Berkin Simmons, aged 21; and Catherine Fletcher Simmons, aged 28,
occurred in the following month. Joseph Berkin Simmons' girlfriend, Jeanine
Henors Forrester, who was coincidentally the last member of her family, was
trampled upon during The Great Food Riot of 2048. 
          " Subject's profession is founder/percussionist of New Chicago's
predominant band, Genital Leprosy. Information on accompanying members was found
to be unnecessary at this   time. End of scanalysis and report."
          " Continue to administer  internal-convulsion  ejections until further
notice. If subject Joseph Berkin Simmons awakens from his subconscious state,
have him sedated immediately."
          " Understood."
          Order-droid/Riot controller S'neta left the  Examination/Sedation room
with the clanging of its feet.  

          The boat I was in lightly tapped the dock. I woke up and looked
around. It was my summer house by the lake, in Galena, Illinois. Then I realized
that I wasn't alone. I  looked up and saw a beautiful woman standing in front
of me.
          It was Jeanine, smiling brightly as always.
          My head hurt, but I got up and embraced her tightly then kissed her
lightly on the lips. Dumbfounded that the things around me were real, I actually
pinched  myself just to make sure. Just then my standing up in the boat tipped
it over, sending Jeanine and I into the frigid  lake.
          The water wasn't as deep as I thought it was.  Jeanine was kneeling
right next to me---laughing like a little kid but dripping wet. At first, I was
quiet and suddenly I laughed so hard that I pulled her down with me into the
water.
          " You bastard, " she giggled. " You got me all  dirty again just after
I showered. Now I'll have to take  ANOTHER one."
          " Oh, damn, ' I said. " I SWEAR I didn't mean  it."
          She then put up her index finger and "shushed" me up. Our lips didn't
let go for a long time. Then I  looked into her eyes and spoke to her quietly.
          " You know what?  I've got to tell you a little  secret, " I said.
          " And what is it ? " she insisted.
          " I think that I'm in love, " I replied.
          " And ??? "
           " And I've got to ask you a question that's been  burning my heart
for ages."
          " If I'm thinking about what you're thinking, then my answer is a
`yes'," she said enthusiastically. If looks could kill, then her smile was
murderous.
          She raised her right arm and then...
          And then she SLAPPED me !!!!
          " Jeanine, what the hell are you doing ?" My face was twisted up like
play-dough just waiting to be formed. Then, her fingers seemed to stretch right
in front of me--- her face glowing almost like metal; her smile unnatural.
          And evil.
          Needles protruded from her now-extended fingers, dripping with a
transparent fluid that was somehow familiar. I stared in horror as she
penetrated my wrists and WITHDREW from my body a yellowish-liquid. She slapped
me again as she removed the needles....

           I woke up in the old reality. The Order-droid, S'neta, the one who
had arrested me near the food riot, was actually tapping my face instead of
slapping it.
          " Please wake up, Joseph Berkin Simmons. You  will be briefed shortly.
Meanwhile, you will be shown to your new quarters as soon as you are
decontaminated and released from The Quarantine. " S'neta spoke without emotion
or pattern.
          " The what ?" 

          I was taken into a room as big as the entire building that my cubicle
was a small part of. One wall  had nothing but open windows. S'neta was standing
a few  feet from me, just waiting patiently. I turned to talk  to it. 


          " Now tell me the flippin' truth. You guys grab me from a food-riot
I had nothing to do with, knock me out for no reason, give me a scrubbing and
a shower, and  then take me to a place that looks like a fuckin' hotel suite !
Why ?" I looked S'neta straight into its' eyes.
          " First of all, Joseph Berk----"
          " It's `Joe'. Okay ?"
          " First of all, Joe, you have been sighted and  subsequently chosen
as one of the few who are eligible and proper for The Reward. `The Reward' is
our version of being  released from The Quarantine."          
          " Hold it one goddamned minute.
       " S'neta was really trying my patience. 
       " You mean to tell me that I have been living my entire life in a
holographic-situation ? Kissing an illusion of my mother, making love to a
holographic woman---all the people and places that I've ever known are nothing
but techno-computer simulations ?"
          " No, " it sighed. " Unfortunately the life that  you've been leading
was for real---the death of your loved ones, the situations of your
lifestyle---EVERYTHING. And  you've been living in there." Its' right limb was
pointing out the windows.
          I ran toward the windows and pressed my face up against them. What I
saw looked exactly like the birthday gift my grandfather gave me when I was 10,
the last birth- day present I received from him before he died. It was a little
glass dome with a white-colored base, and inside was the city of his boyhood
Chicago.
          The object outside the windows looked exactly the  same, except that
there were many new buildings and struc- tures.
          But it was no miniature model. It was the real thing.
          Suddenly my gaze was fixed outside the domed city upon the scenery
that reflected through the windows of this structure.
          A distance from the domed New Chicago was a lush  greenery that I had
never seen before in my entire life. It was definitely no match for the
flexi-grass or the other plastic-green substances used as mockeries of grass and
trees. There in front of me, outside the barriers of my  in-born curiosity, were
REAL trees,REAL grass,REAL animals  and insects.
          " The Quarantine," said S'neta, disturbing my  peace of mind, " is a
term The Order uses to describe the domes or `atmospheric shields' that ones
like yourself have  been living in."
          " Bullshit ! I was told that in the 21st century, something called
`The Greenhouse Effect' nearly destroyed everything that once belonged to
nature, which is why we lived within atmospheric-shields. " My concentration was
still outside, in the "Hanging Gardens of Babylon".
          " False information given by the ruling government of the 20th
century. Their scientists had physically---and quite cleverly, I might
add---created the so-called hole over Antartica by the use of silver iodine and
some other  nitrogen-based components, then passed along this false information
to the circulating media of the time. It was  decided that Operation Greenhouse,
as it was called, was to take place in the years between 1999 and 2011.
Skeptical scientists of the time were taken and re-educated, whereas   those who
had originally cooperated were put under the  Witness Protection Program. The
Year of THe New Order followed, and the building of the atmospheric-shields and
domes began as predicted, following the plans of Operation Greenhouse perfectly.
No one complained because all conspirators were dealt with  simultaneously. And
this is how it's been for the past 53 years. I was created in 2001, so you
aren't the first person whose situation I've dealt with. So do not feel that you
are alone."
         Dumbfounded, I slumped down to the floor. S'neta tried to help me up
but I refused. I sat there, thinking of what had just been said to me.        
 " Governement lies---a tradition that dates back almost a hundred years." I
pondered deeply at this statement. All of us have been living a great lie. I
began to think  that life itself was a big lie. Was God pulling a prank on us
?
         And then there were flashes of light outside. Thunder. Like a huge
brontasaurus taking a morning stroll. And then it began to rain.
         It began to rain.
         All natural, all thirst-quenching rain.
         S'neta opened one of the windows for me and picked  me up like a child
to let me touch the rain. THe clouds cried, the brontasaurus-lightning growing
louder and louder, the water-gates of Heaven opened,the buckets of the wishing
well overturned. I felt, absorbed, and jerked to every rain-drop that fell on
my body. I screamed with delight as the rain soaked my body through my clothes.
I looked at my newly-wrinkled fingertips, an experience I had only felt  after
washing a sink loaded with dirty dishes. When I turned to see S'neta's face, I
could've sworn I'd seen it smile. Maybe it wasn't a real smile, the true
physical act, but it definitely was some really subtle emotional expression.
         S'neta put me back down on the floor as gently as a mother would her
own baby.
         " As they say, `Since you've been a good little  boy' here is The
Reward. From now on, you shall live here doing whatever you like. Since the
Order has no need for money, neither do you. In fact you do not HAVE to work 
again, unless you want to. Everything you need will be provided for
you.Uh---(this is the first time S'neta  stuttered)---think of your place as
being the entire  apartment complex that you used to live in, except only on a
larger scale. In fact, you do not have to live here at all; the Rewarded can
choose where they want to live, and it shall be prepared for them." It then
stopped, as if to take a deep breath, but possibly waiting for my expected
response.Finally, I spoke.
         " But...But why the hell are you doing all this ! What's your game ?"
         S'neta stayed silent for a moment, its "eyes" panning down me a couple
of times.
         " There is a famous quote," it said, " that gives a perfect explanation
for all of this `richness'. It  says, `Never question a miracle, just let it
happen and be happy.' My memory bank is not adequately informed about the     
      originator of this quote. `Making all the wrongs right'. It was fortunate
of us to have such compassionate human beings as leaders of the Order---many of
them felt that mankind was too destructive and violent and that its love for
killing uselessly was becoming too apparent in the known universe. They
especially wanted to isolate the more populous, crime-plagued cities of the
world, New Chicago being one of them, with others such as New New York, Altered
Alberta, New Detroit, Greater Los Angeles, S'an Francisco, and all the other
major metropolitan cities in the States. Another reason I can offer you is that
the majority of the Order were born as environmental-extremists, concerned about 
pollution, starvation and all the little goodies that go along with a now
non-existent `human rights list'. It is even said among the older generations,
that mankind is thirsty for war and that it is a last-resort for population
control---"
          " Speaking of war, what the hell ever happened to the one we were in
? Is it The Oil War we're fighting or is it some other shitty vendetta---forgive
me, I `lost track'."
          Here, S'neta laughed---a loud, mechanical laugh.
          " There never was a war," it said. " After The Oil War of 1991, all
the other wars were...how do you say...`bullshit', but for the good,
nonetheless. As some of your past ancestors would say,`Kill 'em all and let God
sort 'em out.'" 
          " But what about the bodies....the bodies--I saw them on the HDTV !
All the countless----"
          S'neta "sneered" at me. " You SHOULD know the  answer to THAT by NOW."
          " Sigh! The magic of a techo-matte. So what the hell happens to me now
? What happens to my friends and  property back in----back in there ?? "
          " The Order will most likely clear out your cubicle as if you were
killed or taken for re-education. And your friends will have to learn to live
without your presence---"
          " Wait one fuckin' minute, metalmouth !! " Even though I was to lead
the life of Reilly, I still didn't forget about my friends.  They were there for
me ever  since my girl was trampled upon during The Great Food Riot. And I will
NEVER forget them because of that."
          S'neta looked at me and paused. " Yes, I know." It started out for the
door, but stopped suddenly. " But I am truly sorry--as much as I may have the
ability to occasionally resent my job, I still have to do it."
          I paused for a minute, then spoke. " Yeah,yeah. Yeah---I understand.
And I'm sorry, too."
          S'neta looked at me, seemingly confused at my response. " Joe, we are
each built for some sort of purpose  in life. And that goes for everyone...and
everything."
          I didn't look at S'neta as it walked silently and casually out of the
"room".   


          After looking around for a few minutes, I finally found the
clothes-dryer and shoved my wet garments into it. I then walked into another
room and was confronted by my familiar drum set, nicely cleaned and perfectly
arranged, with all my other musical necessities. I turned on the  elaborate
array of synthesizers and synth-drums and chose my  drumming sticks from a very
familiar-looking bag. I put in one of my favorite techno-tapes and waited for
the music to start.
          I looked outside and smiled for a long time.
          " Bitchin'" I said.
          And then I began to play----very loudly.
 
 
 Startrek... the Ultimate  S T O R Y !
 
 Good Morning. My name is Mister Spock, Science officer of the
 USS Enterprise, collector of rare Antarean tentacle flutes,
 lead singer with the Sex Phasers, promulgator of interspecies
 harmony and holder of the Vulcan boy scout in logic, second
 class. This is my day:
 
      I am woken up by the Captain reading his log over the
 P.A. at stardate 6:30 am. We're supposed to get a lie-in on
 Sundays, but as there's a pre-credits crisis going on we'll
 be racking up some overtime this month. The Enterprise is
 stranded in the hole in the middle of a giant space doughnut
 that needs our dilithium crystals for sugar frosting. By
 five to seven, the Captain has confused it with a speech
 about the essential good nature of humanity, complete with
 extensive footnotes from the American constitution. It goes
 away in disgust and I go back to bed.
      Get up at 11:30am, dial a breakfast of coffee,
 croissants and a bowl of martian slime-warts washed down
 with a quart of exotic Klingon Panther-Piss. I decide not to
 bother shaving my eyebrows. I put on the stupid plastic ears
 that Starfleet forces all its Science officers to wear &
 crawl down to the bridge for another fun filled exciting day.
 It's quiet. We're only on Yellow alert. Which is just as
 well, I couldn't handle that stupid siren going Whoop-Whoop
 this early in the morning.
      It seems we've come across a planet that shouldn't be
 there, so all the important members of the crew, plus three
 security officers from the Disposable Dork section, beam down.
 The ship if left under the sterling command of Tibbles, the
 ship's cat. Since all the Captain does all day is play with
 his swivel chair and sing 'The Star-Spangled banner', the cat
 makes an ideal substitute.
      On the planet's rocky surface, which my highly sensitive
 instruments tell me is 20 yards square and made of plastic
 (though I don't tell the Captain this), Kirk realises that
 he's forgotten to put his ridiculous track-suit bottoms on and
 goes back to the ship to get them. By the time he returns, the
 three disposable dorks have died mysteriously, and bloody
 McCoy has had the chance to say "He's dead, Jim!" three times.
      I'm always offended by the way people call ME Jim. Of
 course, my Vulcan first name is unpronounceable, but does
 anybody call me up and say: "Hey, Unpronounceable, how about
 we cruise the space port, have a few Rigellian beers and get
 laid?" No, its always: "Mr Spock, why don't you let your ears
 down for a while ?"
      The Captain gets back. The planet is inhabited by a
 vicious man eating-monster, a beautiful girl in glitter make-
 up and an alien who dresses up in historical costumes left
 over from some other series. This week, it's the Sheriff of
 Nottingham, a primitive Earthling who liked to rob the poor
 to feed the rich - so I understand. The Captain quotes more of
 the constitution, gets off with the girl and kills the monster
 while the rest of us sit around looking worried and putting on
 our toenail polish.
      We beam back to the ship, have a little joke and all fall
 about the place as we are zapped by Klingons.
      The little console in the corner that's supposed to shoot
 out sparks when we're attacked shoots out sparks. (I've been
 trying to get Starfleet to put in seatbelts for years).
      There's an entire Klingon battle fleet out there
 determined to cream us because Captain Kirk got Klingon
 Imperial High War-Bastard Krudd's daughter pregnant.
      "The dilithium crystals wonny take any more of this
 Cap'n," says Mr Scott over the intercom. "The hamster that
 works the little wheel that runs the impulse engines has died
 of a heart attack, och aye, the noo, hoots mon." I don't know
 why he pretends to be Scottish (as the Scots became extinct
 seven centuries ago), but I expect it's go something to do
 with the fact that he's an ex-Nazi interplanetary arms dealer
 from Tau Ceti
      We asked the ship's computer what to do and it replies:
 "You're such a smart-ass, pointy-ears, you figure it out."
 Death is inevitable. However, I figure it out and we escape.
      I go down to the gym and practise my Vulcan combat moves.
 I have just perfected the most deadly fighting move in the
 universe - the dreaded Vulcan nose-pinch - guaranteed to get
 you out of tight situations without having to use any
 expensive special effects.
      Time for lunch in the Enterprise canteen - fish and
 chips, apple pie and custard. And more bloody slim-warts.
 Everybody laughs and tells dirty jokes I don't understand. So
 I raise one eyebrow and slope off for a sulk.
      From 2 to 2.30 pm is my Vulcan rutting season, so watch
 out. Yesterday I impregnated a stand-up ashtray. I have this
 terrible urge to have sex with anything. The Captain calls by
 for a friendly game of three dimensional chess......
      After we've finished our cigarettes, the Captain's mind
 is taken over by an evil force-beam coming from a planet that
 was colonised 300 years ago by unwanted TV gameshow hosts. He
 forces Mr Sulu to dress up as a pink furry rabbit and tap
 dance. Mr Chekov has to guess the price of the Enterprise in
 roubles. He loses and is dropped in a vat of foam. I guess it
 correctly down to the kopeck but am disqualified because I
 refuse to sing "Nellie the Elephant" in Swahili backwards. I
 suggest that as a solution, we kill the captain. I realise
 there will be side-effects but I reckon I can live with them.
 However, Murder proves unnecessary. After we blow up the
 planet with a few photon torpedoes, the Captain returns to
 "Normal".
      On the sub-space radio, we get a distress call from the
 Federation colony on Planet Porn. The Captain paces up and
 down a while, looks worried and asks Lieutenant Uhuru three
 times to verify this. He has to repeat himself because
 every time she turns to him in her swivel chair he gets a
 chance to look up her skirt. Eventually, the Captain orders us
 to proceed to the planet at Warp Factor 1. I'm constantly
 amazed by the miracle of science that allows us to travel at
 such frightening speeds. On a good day, Mr Scott can get as
 much as 25 mph out of those engines!
      As we approach the planet, Kirk orders Mr Chekov to put
 it up on the screen. "Aye Aye Keptin" say Chekov and the same
 old football with blotchy bits painted on it flashes up in
 front of us.
      Planet Porn is inhabited by men's magazine editors,
 millions of attractive young women and a bunch of dribbling
 photographers. Two thirds of its surface area is covered by a
 massive ocean of beer. For reasons that are not entirely clear
 to me, it is a popular tourist resort with male humans. We
 make audio contact with the planet's chief administrator,
 commander Randy Mackintosh, who explains the problem. They
 have been invaded by a sinister race of intelligent marital
 aids - vibrators are molesting the girls, the blow-up dolls
 are blowing up beneath their owners and a huge amorphous mass
 of strawberry flavoured joy-jelly is drinking all the beer. I
 calculate that they will have taken over the planet completely
 in 3.37485 hours precisely and everyone on the bridge throws
 things at me for being a smart-ass. I further go on to suggest
 that the logical way of dealing with this major threat to the
 galaxy is to blow the planet to bits. But will they listen to
 me? Oh no. I turn around to find that they've already beamed
 down and that the Captain has left me a note saying that I'm
 to get the Enterprise out of there and leave him behind if
 he's not back by tea-time.
      Too bad. hey all get back in time having successfully
 dealt with this threat to civilization as we know it. I
 imagine that the Captain must have confused the sex aids with
 dirty jokes from the American Constitution.
      In the evening, I go out and have fun, fun, fun at the
 staff recreation room. We sink a few jars, do a little
 differential calculus and all try to get off with Lieutenant
 Uhuru. I get drunk and sing old Vulcan songs, such as "The
 Pink Hills of Squidlblxx", "Four and Twenty Virgins Came Down
 from Zuxccrnch", "My Baby was Partially Eaten by Romulans" and
 "I Lost my Heart to an Organ-Bank Manageress". Everybody gets
 fed up with this and Joe, the bartender, throws me out at
 stardate five past three. I go back to my room, put on my E.T.
 pyjamas, drop my ears into a glass of water and cry myself to
 sleep.


[ 80 COLUMNS; LOWERCASE ]



                          _______________________________
                         |                               |
                         |        The Ramsacker's        |
                         |        Textfile Primer        |
                         |                               |
                         | A Pieces of Eight Production! |
                         |                               |
                         |         July 27, 1989         |
                         |_______________________________|



     I have always been intrigued by the textfile as a medium for the 
exchange of useful information ranging from hacking to kracking, phreaking to 
anarchy, and humor to distaste.  The abundance of information that can be 
obtained from textfiles used to be widely understaged by the many people who 
saw them merely as "g-philes",  using that term in a slightly negative 
connotation.  As of late,  I have seen a movement towards the acceptance of 
textfiles as a viable form of trade through the proliferation of groups such 
as cDc who's main contribution to the modeming society has been their release 
of many fine textfiles ranging from tutorials to interesting stories.  

     What has been bothering me as of late in my ongoing collection of 
textfiles is the lack of quality of some of the files that I receive.  It is 
annoying to download a file that looks like some stupid fuck wrote it by 
slamming his fist down on the keyboard;  the spelling being atrocious and the 
format being unbearable.  I realize that not all of us are scholars,  but it 
only takes a few more minutes to check up on your spelling and format the 
text a bit.  What disgusts me further is that some people DO take the time to 
make their files look pretty,  only to have some complete looze fuck it up by 
viewing it over shitty phone lines and then upload it to another system,
thus causing a perpetuation of a corrupted file.  In most cases,  some of the 
important data gets lost or the effect of the file is shattered because you 
come upon a string of line noise right in the middle of an interesting 
section.  If people would just take the time to handle the files with care,  
there wouldn't be many crap files around.  Unless you're an asshole,  you 
don't check a book out of a library and destroy it.  Let's face it,  fucked 
files are just that:  fucked!  And nobody likes a copy of a fucked file no 
matter how little they care.  Everyone would rather have the file in it's 
original format.

     Since I predict the exchange of textfiles to be a popular pasttime (much 
like the collection of "wares" in the earlier days of Apple pirating),  I 
have written this file in hopes to set a guideline for file writing and 
trading.  You wouldn't put out a "bad" crack,  or a patch that didn't work or 
even fucked up what you were trying to patch.  The same goes for textfiles, 
in the same sense.

     Here are some guidelines to keep in mind when dealing with the trade or
writing of textfiles:

     o If possible,  try to download the file using a protocol so that if any
       line noise is present during your session it won't affect the file.

     o If you must V)iew files,  and if you are planning to upload it to
       another system,  then when you buffer it,  at least try to remove any
       garbage that may have infiltrated the text,  and PLEASE remove all
       transfer prompts (i.e. "[ Volume 10 #1-11 ]" and "(>").  I find those
       most annoying,  especially after they have accumulated after many
       transfers between different systems.

     o Don't try to do the general modem public a favor by "editing" files.
       Let sleeping dogs lie.  If the author intended the file to be in all
       uppercase then that's how it should stay.  The same goes for 40 column
       textfiles.  They don't need to be stretched out to 80 columns.  They
       still read the same either way.

     o Never add your say to a file or modify the original authors work just
       because you feel strongly about the subject.  You wouldn't change
       Shakespear's words around in any of his works (unless you were in
       school and had nothing better to do).  Modifying other peoples work is
       the sign of a true loser.  I saw this done to "The Real Pirates Guide"
       and it totally disgusted me (you're a fucken loser for that,  Dak)!

     o When writing files,  don't neglect to include the date (and maybe even
       the time) somewhere in the file.  You're writing history of sorts,
       and people who read your file in the future might be interested to
       know when you wrote it (especially if the material stands a chance of
       being outdated in the future and will not apply,  such as some phreak
       info).

     o Write your files on a word processor that will add carriage returns to
       all the lines or at least has word wrap.  That usually solves the
       problem of extra carriage returns between lines which screws up the
       text somewhat.

     Remember,  as an author,  you should be proud of your work.  So take the 
time and effort to format and proofread it before you put it out.  Even if it 
is just a quickie file,  spend a few extra seconds rounding out the rough 
edges to make it at least look respectable.  And you wouldn't want some 
asshole fucking with your files after you put them out,  so don't do it to 
other peoples files.

     I hope some of my ideas catch on.  Even if they don't,  I figure that I 
at least put forth the effort.


                       ---------------------------------
                                    NOTICE:
                       ---------------------------------
                         No additions,  deletions,  or
                         modifications may be  made to
                         this file AT ALL.  Also, this
                         file is  to be transferred in
                         its original  format  and any
                         corrupted  copies  should  be
                         put  out  of  their misery by
                         being deleted.
                       ---------------------------------


               A Semi-Useless File from Pieces of Eight Kracking


                                                            The Ramsacker
                                                            July 27, 1989
                                                            11:17 PM
????????


            TIMES DOUBLES DEFECTS; PUBLISHER POSSIBLY PLINKED
                                
                         by Jean Blevins

     All right, I know, holding the press to correct a one-letter typo
seems like shooting a fly with a bazooka. So we should have found it while 
we were proofing in the newsroom. Still, we're only half a minute after 
deadline. Yeah, I don't like being late, and the guys in the press room 
complain, and maybe the publisher will growl at us tomorrow morning. But 
you can't let those typos slide. Not even a one-letter one. Why not?
* Why * not? * What do they teach you kids in journalism school nowadays?
Okay, okay. Here's why not.

     This happened a long time ago, somewhere between the death of the big 
afternoon dailies and the birth of the in-home, online news services. I was 
working on a middle sized daily in a city about 75 miles from where anything
happened that would ever make the wires.

     I was the assistant night editor, which means me and Eddie,
the night editor, put out the paper after the reporters went home.
Eddie had been in the news business so long he probably read Hildy
Johnson's copy. You know, the star reporter in "Front Page." Didn't
you learn anything in college besides names of typefaces?
     
     Anyway, as soon as the reporters wandered off toward their
favorite bars about 9 p.m., we started reading their copy and
laying out the pages, pulling wire copy to fill the holes. We would
just about have time to proof the pages once more before they were
due in the pasteup department by 11 p.m., and on the big Goss press
by midnight. If that press wasn't rolling by 12:10, our heads would
be rolling the next morning when The Chief, as our allegedly
beloved publisher loved to call himself, started his typical day of
harassing employees, one-upping the other community pillars, and
slurping his usual three-martini lunch.

     This particular night didn't look like anything special. Aside
from the usual whining reporters, complaining photographers,
grumbling assistant city editors, everything was nice and quiet,
just the way I like it. Finally, the crowd wandered bar-ward and
Eddie and I went into high gear, reading stories, correcting typos,
sending finished pages to pasteup. I was deep in a story about a
hit-and-run accident involving a sheep, and making a mental note to
tell Peter, the police reporter, that I'm going to hit and run him
if he writes me one more dead sheep story, when I heard Eddie yell.

     "Geez, kid, what kinda headline did you put on that fireman's
bingo story?"

     I knew Eddie meant me, because "kid" is his way of addressing
everyone younger than himself, meaning slightly sunward of
embalmment age. "Well, nothing special, Eddie. I think it said,
'East Side Fire Fighters Set Bingo Night.' Why?"
     
     "How big did you make it?"

     "Oh, not very, Pretty small. About 14 points, I think." I
remember making the head just big enough to show above a story set
in the standard 10-point size type we used for articles.

     Eddie growled, "I knew we never should've changed our style
from 'firefighter' to 'fire fighter.' Now look what's happened."

     For some reason a chill ran down my back the way he said it,
and I knew it wasn't because of the battle royal that raged in the
newsroom when we went from accepting only the two word spelling,
"fire fighter," instead of accepting only the one-word spelling,
"firefighter," as was done before the rule change. That stuff
happens every few years in every newsroom - you just about pound it
through all the reporters' heads that the word is "firefighter,"
like that, one word, and - bam! Somebody up high decides, no it
isn't either. It's "fire fighter." Two words. And the first few
days after a change like that drives everybody crazy - the
reporters with writing it wrong and the editor with trying to
remember which way is right - now.

     But when I hurried to Eddie's desk and looked over his
shoulder at his monitor, I saw the same little story I had
proofread, about the East Side Fire Company announcing their bingo
night. The only thing wrong that I saw immediately was that somehow
the headline was now a definitely medium sized 18-point height,
which was really too big for a story that should go at the bottom
of one of the inside pages.

     "Sorry, Eddie. I meant to make that 14 points. I'll fix it."

     "Yeah, but where did you get 'fire factors' instead of fire
fighters?"

     "Huh?" I looked again. "Oh, I see. It does say 'fire factors,'
doesn't it? I dunno. I meant to type fire fighters, of course.
Guess I typed it wrong. Sorry."


     "Fix it, kid," he said, pressing the button that sent the
story back to my terminal. 

     I hurried back to my desk, sat down -- and yelled, "Eddie! What did you
change it for?"

     There, in the monitor, was the headline I was supposed to fix.
But now it was a full 24 points high - like something that should
go near the top of the page - and the wording made little sense:
East Side Fire Factors Set Borough Night.

     "Is it different?" Eddie asked, a wary note in his voice.

      I nodded, and he barked, "Don't touch it. Don't send it back
here! Wait, I'll come over and look at it." Eddie heaved his short,
stubby frame out of his chair and ambled purposefully over to my
desk. He muttered, "Once one letter changes, it gets worse if you
don't get 'em right away..."

     Peering through his thick hornrims and looking over my
shoulder, he read softly, aloud, from the headline which I now saw
was a 36-point banner: EAST SIDE FIRE FACTORS SET BOROUGH ALIGHT.

     "Geez," Eddie growled. "This is going to be a long night."
While Eddie reached over my shoulder and typed the correction,
chopping the headline back to its 14-point station in life, I heard
fire sirens outside. They seemed to come from the east side of
town. What a coincidence, I remember thinking.

     "That was a big one, kid," Eddie said, shuffling back to his
desk. "Better check every other head in the B section - I'll do the
A section. When one of them goes that bad, there are likely to be
others."

     "Sure, Eddie," I said, flicking through the electronic
representation of pages in my monitor. "You mean you think there's
other mistakes that I missed?"

     Eddie frowned into his screen. "They're not exactly mistakes,
kid. But I guess they never taught you about this stuff at that
newspaper college you went to, huh?"

     Like many newspaper vets, Eddie had his doubts about
journalism school graduates. They lacked something, in his view -
starting with normal human intelligence.


     "Uh, you mean like the importance of proofreading?" I said,
hesitantly, while scanning pages on my monitor.

     "No, kid. This is past proofreading. This is the 'why' of
proofreading. It's not just reading for errors. It's reality, kid.
Reality gets out of hand every once in a while. Didn't you ever
notice that? The news business is like the forward outpost of where
reality can go wrong. We see it first - then we gotta put it back
where it belongs, and that's not as easy as I'd like. Pay attention
to what you're reading. Do you see anything that looks kinda
funny?"

     Reality? I thought. But I said only, "Well, so far everything
looks okay, except this one headline that looks kind of blurred."

     "Blurred? Watch out. That's one of the first signs," Eddie
warned.

      I stared intently at a small, unremarkable headline,
consisting of one line, 14 points in size, stating, "Note Reports
Corps Effort." I wrote it that dreary little head earlier in the
evening, and clearly I was not at my Pulitzer-contending best when
I did it. But what can you say about some kid writing his parents
about what he did in ROTC camp? If I had anything else to fill up
that page with, I surely would have used it. 

     The fire sirens wails still drifted in the window, and as I
glanced toward it, I saw the sky east of town looked reddish. Nah,
I thought. It couldn't be. Imagination - that's what it is.
were still screeching outside - and the sky east of town looked
reddish. That's it, I thought, I'm imagining it.

     Looking back at the monitor, to check one more time on "Note
Reports Corps Effort," I saw it had popped up to 28 point type
size. I blinked my tired eyes. The headline, now 40 points of huge,
black, type, now proclaimed:

     POPE SUPPORTS WAR EFFORT.

     "Eddie!" I wailed. Outside, car backfires made me think of
gunfire. Just because of these nutty typos, my imagination has to
work overtime...there were a lot more backfires.

     "I can't come now, kid. Remember that soap story I got from
you to fill a little hole on page 3?" He was referring to a very
small local item about the monthly report from the town water
plant, and the only thing I could think of to pin the headline to
was a slight but harmless increase in the detergent count.

     "You mean, Detergents Detected In City Water? 15 points on
A3?"

     "Yeah," Eddie growled. "Only now it's 45 points across the top
of page 1: INSURGENTS ATTACKED AS CITY WATCHES."

     Outside I heard a rumble - a heavy, building-shaking rumble.
It couldn't be artillery mixed with the sound of cars backfiring.
A lot of cars, doing a lot of backfiring, and running feet, and
indistinct shouting.

     "Eddie, about that noise outside --"

     "Forget it, kid. We can still unhappen it in here. And if we
can't," he glanced at the clock on the wall, "we still have a few
minutes before we have to get Peter in here. Or out there."

     "Peter? The police reporter?"

     "Yeah. If we can't unhappen it here, it's gone too deep into
reality, and we're stuck with it - whatever it is. Too bad - nice
little city like this, getting all shot up. Keep reading, kid. If
we move fast we still might make it. Hey, do you carry a gun?" 

     My jaw dropped, and failed to function enough to formulate an
answer.

     "Never mind. There's one here in the desk drawer. And we might
get lucky and not need it."

     A gun in the City Desk drawer? We all thought it was a bottle
of booze in that locked drawer that the top editors consulted
occasionally.  

     Well, I was reading as fast as I could, slapping big headlines
down to little ones, taking all the unauthorized excitement out of
them and trying to ignore any possible fire and insurrection
outside the building, when I heard something even worse - the voice
of our publisher.

     "Hi, boys"! he boomed in his usual falsely hearty style, and
I glanced up long enough to see the red-faced, red-nosed Chief
himself, saunter through the double doors into the city room and
pause in the lobby area - just behind the little decorative fence
that we all hope will stop the homicidal nuts before they get to
whoever in the newsroom offended them most recently.

     "Chief," Eddie said, without looking up, "did you notice
anything unusual outside?"

     The balding publisher scratched his shiny dome. "Nothing
special", he said, and Eddie sighed with relief. "Just the usual
citywide fire originating in the south borough, and some armed
insurgents here and there. Keep up the good work, boys", the Chief
said, with a smile, and turned toward his office.

     "Chief," Eddie called, pulling open the drawer in his desk
that was, as far as I had ever known, always locked. "Just a minute, Chief,"
he said, and the Chief paused.

     "Yes"? he intoned, genially.

     Eddie snatched out a snub nosed 38, emptied the barrel in the
Chief's direction with a series of blasts that thoroughly rattled the 
building, then tossed the gun back in the drawer. The drawer shut with a
slam just as the Chief's body hit the reception area floor with a thump.

     I was going to scream but it suddenly occurred to me that this
might annoy Eddie - something I suddenly wished to never, never do.
Then Eddie laughed. "Close your mouth, kid. It's okay. Our work is
going to get easier, now. Check our last correction - I bet it
stayed corrected."

     I looked, and it had. The firefighters were resolutely
announcing their bingo night, nothing more. The ROTC was doing its
ROTC things, unaided by the Pope. I even dared hope the water
supply was back to its lousy tasting normality - and it was.

          "Come on," Eddie said, heaving himself out of his chair
again. "Let's get this stuff to pasteup and check it one more time
and then wrap it up. We can still catch the deadline."

     I rose, but glanced fearfully toward the reception area,
dreading what I would see, and wondering how big the pool of blood
would be by now, and how Eddie planned to explain it -- but then I
stared again. There was nothing there.

     "Eddie! The Chief! He's gone!" I sputtered.


     "Kid," Eddie said, tucking his pica ruler in his back pocket
so it would be handy for checking sizes when we reached the pasteup
department across the building, "he was never there. Not the real
Chief, I mean. Couldn't you see he was a part of all this kink in
reality we've been fighting? That's why I put him down so quick, to
get things headed in the right direction."

     "A phony? The Chief? No, he looked okay to me. Are you sure?"
I could see there was no body on the floor, no blood. "But how did
you know?"

     "Didn't you notice it, kid? The Chief has his faults. But he's
been a newsman long enough that he would never, never put his
punctuation outside his quotations."

     "Eddie," I said, as gently as I could, "You can't hear
punctuation."

     "Sure you can," he said, stopping at the water fountain for a
sip as he headed around the corner toward the pasteup department.
"You just gotta listen. You'll get it, kid. But try to pay
attention, okay? Because you're going to have to babysit this
circus by yourself in about three weeks, when I take my vacation."

     I stared. Then I took a deep breath. "Where do you keep the
key to that drawer?" I said.

     Eddie said he would show me when we got back from pasteup. And
he did. And I still keep it in the same place today. Never mind
where - when you're assistant night editor, that will be plenty soon
enough for you to know.

VALENTINE
  by George Willard
        
        
        
  "Son of a bitch!"

  The once-heavy backpack banged against my knees as I slipped in 
the roadside mud.

  "Damn," I thought, too tired to vocalize my frustration, "hope it's 
still okay."  I could have opened the flap and checked, but I needed 
both hands to regain my feet and scrape off the worst of the yellow 
Missouri clay. I was getting close to home. I'd take it on faith that 
the Gods wouldn't shit on me _again_.

  There was no particularly good reason for faith, and the recent past 
surely contained no Deific-crap-free pattern . . . but there it was. "
Hope springs eternal."

  Life seemed to be on an ever-upward spiral just weeks ago when I left 
for a weekend convention in Southern California. I kissed Val goodbye 
and wiped the corners of her eyes with a fingertip.

  "Don't worry, My Funny Valentine! I'll be back in a few days and I'll 
bring you something special from the Coast."

  She tucked her head into the hollow of my neck, I hugged her, then 
climbed into my cold pickup, shivering in the icy predawn January fog. The 
heater would barely get warm by the time I arrived at the little airport.

  The airline should have been my first omen of coming doom. When I 
arrived in St. Louis, I was told my flight had been canceled. I had to 
wait three hours for another, screwing up my ground-transport arrangements 
out on the Coast. Sure enough, Larry and Chris had long since left, it 
never having occurred to them to check with the TWA counter to see what 
flight I was actually on. What can you expect of writers, though -- 
practicality? Certainly not in many cases I've seen. 

  After griping with the airline service desk over their delays, they 
finally agreed to give me a shuttle-bus coupon to the hotel where the 
Jacksonville West Writers' Punathon was scheduled. I knew it had to be 
the right place when I spotted eight overweight women dressed in nun's 
habits dancing in a conga line, singing "Somewhere Over The Rainbow" to 
a calypso beat. The hotel staff seemed to be frozen in shock.

  Stage two of the "shit on Mark" process began at the front desk. "We're 
sorry, Mr. Matthews, but we show your reservation as canceled."

  "CANCELED?! That was a prepaid reservation!"

  "Sorry, sir."

  "Sorry don't cut it. Just get back into your computer and UN-cancel me!"

  "We'd love to, sir, but we're full up, sold out for the weekend. You 
  could go next door and they'll honor our convention rates."

  "Swell. YOU have my money, y'know."

  "No, we don't. We mailed a refund back to Missouri yesterday."

  Damn! MasterCard and Visa were in their usual state of nearly-maxxed-out, 
and I knew that touching American Express would bring a flying hit-squad 
down on me. I carefully calculated, and decided I could still get a room 
and survive the weekend if I was frugal with my cash.

  I smiled at the desk clerk. "Thank you for your assistance. Now I 
understand why people out here take Ak-47s to schoolyards. They're 
afraid the kids will grow up into Californians."

  The Gods seemed to have found a different toidy-target for most of 
the weekend. Puns flew fast and thick through the hotel, prompting a 
run on barf bags. Karen Rhodes, Guest-of-Dishonor, had 'em puking in 
the aisles at the banquet. A local TV news crew came to do a report 
and left in a state of nausea. Strangers recognized me: "Hossie? The 
prime horse-pun _artiste_?"  I could usually dodge the sucker-punches 
aimed at me although one kid with a ball-bat got closer than I liked. 
Known as the best when it comes to leading people into pun-traps, I won 
the Master Baiter award.

  Sorry. I almost forgot this is supposed to be a tale of pathos and 
romance.

                              *  *  *

 Anyway, things went well -- until time to leave. I even had enough money 
to buy Valentine the present I'd promised to bring her. The airport gift 
shop had a small heart-shaped box of oat-bran chocolates . . . only in 
California, huh? I knew Val would appreciate the goodies and the thought 
behind them.

  With almost an hour before boarding time I checked in the luggage 
and just kept my backpack with the candy and a few items of 
personal jewelry that I didn't wish to trust to TWA's tender 
mercies. I went outside where there were a few designated 
smoking areas and chatted with the skycaps. The first time a bus 
passed and made the structure rumble I jumped in alarm. "Was 
that an earthquake?"  Rodney, a middle-aged black 'cap smiled at 
the ignorant "Missouri mule."  

  "Naw, that's the way the building's designed:  to give a little 
instead of cracking up. Don't worry, sir, you're perfectly 
safe."

  He pointed to the busses and I felt the rumble each time they 
passed a particular point. I settled my nerves and lit another 
cigarette in a foredoomed attempt to load my bloodstream with 
enough nicotine to last four hours in the air. I took my first 
drag when the biggest bus in history must have driven by.

  By now you know that the earthquake of '95 was "The Big One" 
everyone had talked about for years. At least, I hope it was. I 
can't see how there could be a bigger one without totally 
wrecking the planet. 

  After an eternity of noise and motion, the world went nearly 
silent. The air was clogged with dust, the sun making only a 
sickly-yellow glow in the haze.

  By some perverted miracle I found myself still holding my 
cigarette, still lit, only half burned away. The quake couldn't 
possibly have lasted such a short time.

  The terminal buildings were rubble, all the high-rises I 
remembered seeing only moments before were gone, the highway 
overpasses lay flat. As the dust began to settle, the glow of 
flames became visible all around the area. Jetliners, cars, gas 
mains, filling stations -- all seemed to ignite at once. My 
hearing returned and I realized the silence had been illusion. 
Fires roared, people screamed; the earth and the city groaned.

  I had no idea how far the damage stretched, or how big a quake it 
was. People on the East Coast knew a lot more about the quake a 
lot sooner than the people who were in it. Although it took a 
couple of hours, the news vultures were eventually flying over 
three utterly-devastated counties. "Greater Los Angeles" was 
wiped out. Lacking their aerial viewpoint or a means to receive 
their live telecasts I could only see what was in my immediate 
vicinity. 

  I looked down into Rodney's smiling . . . dead . . . face. A 
piece of concrete canopy had landed on him. I could see the 
reinforcing rod which had pierced his brain, likely killing him 
before it pushed him down. I couldn't see anyone else still 
erect. I couldn't even see human movement.

  I shit my pants.

  Fantasies are very human things. Idle moments are spent 
daydreaming of the perfect love, winning millions of dollars, 
revenge, or even Rescuing The Fair Maiden. I'd whiled away a few 
hours visualizing what I'd do if I was nearby a disaster:  how 
I'd dig through the rubble with bare hands and save an infant and 
his grandmother from Certain Death, how I'd brave the flames of a 
burning building to bring out a 7-year-old girl's kitten, or 
apply CPR to the President after all his guards had been wiped 
out in a poison-gas assassination attempt. In every case I would 
graciously accept the kudos of officials and public with obvious 
modesty and heroic mien.

  Somehow fantasies aren't real. Hmmm. . .

  Maybe it might be different if I was on the outside of a 
disaster, looking in. Maybe then I would summon hidden reserves 
of courage and selflessly risk life and limb to Do The Right 
Thing. Maybe. But in the '95 Quake, I was no hero. I hadn't 
grown up on shaky ground, didn't have any idea what to expect 
next. Give me a tornado, give me a flood; I know what to do. 
Car wrecks? No problem. But I was stranded in a city which had 
frightened me _before_ it fell down. Too much traffic, too many 
roads, TOO MANY PEOPLE! 

  People. People! They would be scared, too. They'd be hungry. 
They would rob me, kill me, eat my fat-marbled flesh. 

  I ran as best I could. It was really pretty easy now that the 
urban terror had been instantly converted to wilderness. Years 
of deep woods hunting experience, years of fence-jumping at night 
while dodging farmer's watchdogs and rural patrol cars--I made it 
to the edge of the city intact, although it took a few days. I 
hoped Val was all right. She'd be worried about me, but the 
neighbors knew where I was going and would look in on her, making 
sure she had all she needed, doing the things she couldn't do for 
herself. I hoped so, anyway.

  I ran until I encountered a National Guard aid post at the edge 
of the destruction. I later found out I could have gone a few 
hundred yards west to the beach and been picked up right away, 
but instinct made me head east towards home. The Gods were doing 
their number again.

  I still carried my backpack. Tobacco was long gone, but the 
Guardsmen gave me a hard time about the jewelry until I showed 
them my initials engraved in it. They said they'd started 
shooting looters on sight two days before.

  I got a bowl of hot soup, a quick medical checkover, and a truck 
ride to a refugee camp in the Valley. I waited in line for six 
hours for the chance to send a message via ham radio to the 
neighbors, telling them I was alive and trying to return home, 
asking them to make sure Valentine was eating okay. I hoped it 
would get through. There were no phone cables, most microwave 
links had been broken, and the few satellite channels available 
through portable uplinks were reserved for official business and 
the news media. Publicity Hath Its Privileges.

  At the camp, I learned that it could take weeks before transport 
was available since all traffic west of the Rockies was under 
Federal control, limited to essentials due to fuel shortages 
caused by the quake. 

  I couldn't face the thought of such a delay. I listened to the 
rumors of plans to form the refugees into "voluntary rescue 
brigades" and couldn't face the thought of going back into that 
massive graveyard, either. Again I put my stealth skills to work 
and found a railroad switching yard. Most of the eastbound 
trains were empty cars, so I had little trouble sneaking a ride. 
The switchman who found me was nice enough about the whole thing 
and even shared his lunchbox with me, but that only lasted until 
Eastern Arizona where yard detectives gave me the bum's rush.

  Even Arizona was under modified martial law as far as food 
supplies and traffic were concerned. I managed to trade my 
diamond ring for a couple of pounds of black-market beef jerky 
and a ride in the back of a cattle truck. It wasn't so bad once 
I got used to the stink, and the warm bodies were welcome as the 
road climbed.

  I must have gotten close to one percent of the ring's value. I 
was satisfied with the deal.

  It would have been nice if my coat hadn't been checked in with my 
baggage -- but it would have been nicer if the quake had hit two 
hours later than it did, or never happened at all. I stole a 
coat I found hanging in a Texas barn.

  The beef jerky held out to Oklahoma City. My watch brought a 
better return at a pawn shop, enough to buy a bus ticket home. 

  I lost it.

  The Gods were still playing with me, I suppose.

  I counted the few dollars that remained, shrugged, bought a pound 
of bologna and a loaf of bread, a pack of cigarettes, and headed 
for the turnpike. Home was only four hours away.

  Like hell.

  Three days of sleeping under bridges, short rides, hiking, 
dodging Highway Patrol cars, and muttering at fate brought me to 
Joplin. I called a friend with my last quarter. He gave me a  
ride to the airport where I found my truck still parked, still 
intact. I had my wedding ring, my backpack, my clothes, a stolen 
coat, and that silly box of candy for Val. I was alive, and had 
a wealth of material to write about. My ordeal was over.

  Until the engine locked up, a blown piston two miles from home at 
three in the morning.

  I pounded my forehead against the steering wheel a few times, 
sighed, and began to walk. It was warm for the middle of 
February -- warm enough to thaw the ground and turn it into slime. 

  I walked on the blacktop. I almost made it when a drunk driver 
came swerving down the road, inspiring me to make closer 
acquaintance with the roadside ditch.

  Back on the road, I paused to recover my breath, then began 
laughing. The Gods' plans must not have included killing me, 
because another drunk driver -- or a sober one -- could have knocked 
me off as I staggered down the last mile, laughing crazily.

  One last hill up the private gravel road and into my driveway. 
Home at last! Scrape the mud from my battered tennis shoes, 
unlock the door, step over the cats demanding a treat, and walk 
back to the far end of the trailer.

  I opened the door and turned on the light. Val awoke with a 
start, blinked, then stood and walked away. She stopped, turned, 
and glared accusations.

  "Val! My Funny Valentine!"

  Silence.

  "It wasn't my fault. Honest!"

  Silence.

  "Look, I even remembered to bring you a present. Candy! Today's 
St. Valentine's day, and I brought Valentine some Valentine's 
candy in a Valentine's heart."

  Silence.

  I opened the box and held a piece out for her to see.

  Finally, she slowly approached. She sniffed the oat-bran 
chocolate then snuffled it from my fingers, munching 
appreciatively. At last she broke the silence with a low 
whicker.

  We shared the candy there on the back porch stoop, then she again 
rested her head in the hollow of my neck. I rubbed her ears and 
scratched her mane. 

  My Pretty Pony; My Funny Valentine.

Copyright 1994 George Willard
=========================     #  #  #     ============================
Rather like the description of the Marquis deSade in some dictionaries, 
George might be defined as "an American writer and pervert," but he'd 
rather be known as someone with a twisted, curmudgeonly sense of humor. 
42-going-on-ninety, he lives in rural Joplin, MO with two cats, three 
horses, and the occassional stray writer or other pets.
=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-
                -MY LIVING SEMI-HELL TYPE EXPERIENCE THING -
                             by Urethris



Withdrawal.

It comes in all shapes and sizes. Drugs, alcohol, sex, and for me: BBSing.

I don't know if I intend this to be serious or not, nor do I know where or
when this will get out to the general BBS public. One BBS in particular is
the almighty Cyber/Chat, the mother of all chat boards around here. As most
of you know, I was suddenly ejected, or shall I say, pulled out of the
world of Cyber/Chat last Monday, which was December 28, 1992. The reason
for which is not important, but let me just say I was pressing my luck as
it was, and I am lucky I was punished as lightly as I was. The reason I am
writing this is partly because of overwhelming boredom, and because I would
like to impart my feelings on how the BBS world has changed me and what non
involvment is doing to me currently. I think I shall map it out on a time
line of sorts...

---------------------------------------------------------------------------

May 1, 1992-
As of this date, I was a devoute Catholic and was totaly against drugs
(which I still am) and against the use of alcohol. My grades in school were
pretty good, and I had what could be called a "normal" social life. The
morning of May 1st, however, was one that would drastically alter the
course of my immediate (and hopefully latter) future. On this date I called
my first BBS. It was a board in Brick called Infinity Concepts Prime. I
became freinds with the Sysop there, Tracer Von Megatron. He pretty much
taught me the ropes of BBSing, like message posting, uploading,
downloading, chatting, and the like. From this point on, I made calls to
BBSes from my father's house since I didn't have a modem of my own.

June 16, 1992-
My father decided that I was "responsible" enough to have a modem of my
own. I was overjoyed.

June 17, 1992-
I saw an add on Skyline BBS for a *NEW* chatting BBS called Cyber/Chat!
Wow. What could a board like that be LIKE? I was dying to know, so I
called. The signup looked pretty routine...nothing to get too excited
about. After that I was auto-validated and got a message saying June was
FREE month. Cool enough. Then I was at the main menu and saw "T" for
teleconference. I chose that and all of the sudden I was talking to 5
different people at the same time! All of whom, I might add, had a few
choice words about my choice in handles. A few days after that some dude
who called himself Oddwizard remarked,"Hey...isn't that a Piss Tube or
something?" Another user I didn't know named Midnite agreed and my good ole
nick name was born. Ffej and Slave were just laughing at me at that point.

June 18,-December 28, 1992.
This was my time spent on Cyber/Chat as a regular user. What a time I had.
At first I was scared to talk to everyone, but soon I became comfortable
and began making my usual disgusting horn-ball remarks. Agnostic Messiah,
who was then Picard, was present for many of these. Here is what the
teleconference may have looked like then, in the 8 line days of the Chat...

[The following is a fictional buffer based on events occurring at the time
aformentioned]


From Picard: Hello Ure.
***
From Urethris: Hello there.
***
From Ulycees: Nice handle! Ha!
***
From Sirblah: Yeah so I got this one girl on my lap, and then she goes and
spills my beer all over me! I gave her the boot then!
***
From Sirblah: Heya
***
From Urethris: Sir! Wesley Crusher requests permission to massage your
sphinkter!
***
Sirblah is laughing at Urethris!
***
Ulycees is rolling on the floor laughing!
***
From Picard: Sick sick sick

Ahh....the good old days. Needless to say my reputation was
established. Soon after, I discovered generic actions and had a ball.
Towards the end of June, a Geekfest was held. An historic even indeed.
There I met Mij, Skot, Ffej, both Pauls, Joon, Tal, and Coolone in person.
I had a great time and was gald to have new friends. Soon after various
fests followed, most of which I snuck out to. Sheesh...if the units ever
find this file, I=Dead. Well anyway, I was subtly being influenced by the
goings on on Cyber/Chat. I found more perverse ways to disgust people, and
offended a few Female users. They soon came to appreciate my humor (e.g.
Dreamer). I began to doubt my religion and took on a mind set that could
not take things on faith alone. I was disobeying my parents by sneaking out
all the time, and my previous social life was kaput. Hardly no friends
outside the computer and no girlfriend. I didn't mind. The "geeks" were my
friends now. They understood me.

One fest in particular changed me drastically. This was Blahfest. There I
discovered alcohol and all the fun it can bring. Around this time, I was
already in school, and would stay up really late to chat with the geeks.
This, however, did nothing to affect me or my grades. My mother said, "You
spend TOO much damn time in front of that Goddam thing!" I wasn't
concerned. What did she know? Soon after I got into that touble that most
of you know the explaination of. Right after that my modem was taken away.
I think I shall journal what happens after that starting now.....I don't
really know when I will be able to get this out to anyone. Weeks? Months?
YEARS (though I doubt it)? Who knows?

-------------------------------------------------------------------------

Days 1-7:
God, I am SO bored...I just pace around my room...I think I am going MAD! I
need my farking modem back! I keep dreaming that I call Cyber/Chat, but I
always wake up and realize it was not real.

Day 8:
I feel as though my fingers are out of shape. I saw 0rc and Creon in
school... They talked of various goings on the Chat...they told me there
was gonna be a gathering on the upcoming weekend. I was sad. Ack! I am
going NUTS! I NEED my Cyber/Chat! I sit here and fantasize about talking on
the chat...and my mom keeps bugging me about where I misplaced my
gloves...I hope to get them back soon. I am bored. Oh so bored. I hope
someone actually reads this....pretty soon I fear I shall start babbling on
end and make this into some STORM file or something just as icky. Blossom
is on. Yay. Nose from hell I say. Didn't she appear in a few of those
Webster shows way back when? Gee...I dunno...

Well here, I wrote a thingy in the forums on C/C thanking certain
users...but I think a more complete list is in order. Again I apolgize for
anyone I omit, but then again, I am losing my mind.

Here they are in any order that I think of so there. :P

Beaker: Heya "Hon." I don't blame you for getting me into trouble. I still
love you. I had my first drink with you. We even "slept" together. I am not
sure what your impact on me was, but I think it might have been really
funny.

Ffej: I seriously doubt if you'll see this (I just have this feeling). Even
though you have called me a "moron" on numerous occasions,  I thank you for
introducing me into the world of Alternative Rock. During the Death Race I
had no choice but to listen to it, eh?

Tal Meta: What do I have to say? You bring out the evil in me. I have
enjoyed scaring Christians on a regular basis since listening to your
preaching on the inconsistancies in the Bible. I have taken a new outlook
on religion.

Fuzzball: Foozeman...you have showed me the evils of drug use. Thanks :) No
really... Before I met you, I didn't know ANYONE who could stack a
harddrive while they were shitfaced.

Sir Blah: Well, you have confirmed my suspicions about Irish people being
fall-down drunks. And at least I know there is another Dragon Lance freak
out there.

Ulycees: The other Paul. You remind me that my Guido/Whop hair is not some
curse... it something reserved for the really cool....but wait, you like G
'n R! Damn you! Forget the hair thing! Get a real band! :) Nah...I enjoyed
getting drunk with you too.

Hegz: Bob, my father of sorts. Glad to know that you never had to use the
"Mallet" on me. Heh.

Captain Agnostic Locutus: You were one of the few that was nice to me and
showed me the ropes on C/C. I enjoyed all the Star Trek orgy type jokes.

Mijnite: As evil looking as you are, I feel a brotherly love man. This
groovy thing, I mean. You wouldn't drive 45 minutes to get just ANYBODY now
would you? Thanks to you, I end every setnence I say with "yo."

Powerslave: Bry...fellow Marching Mustang. What else need I mention? We
have much more in common than these others. Hail the Golden drum!

Creon: Get your license already!

Marauderwolf: "Hey hey, I got something to say..." You also showed me the
evils of drugs. I have no yearnings to be an airplane. I also had a load of
fun playing you and Mij in Rampart all night.

Dreamer: You are one of those few existing Cyber/Babes. Gleen is lucky to
have you. You have showed me the kinder, gentler side of things. It is good
to have a positive feminine influence.


Hmmm.....I can't think of anyone else to mention at the moment. Gee. think
I shall go rest my eyes. I NEED to get my modem back. If this goes out
before I officially return to the BBS world, is there anyone who is willing
to lone me a modem?

Day 9:		
Oof. Things are getting better...instead of being a raging lunatic about my
modem loss, I just feel this emptiness. I sit here in front of the monitor
and pretend I am back in the T-conf. I have learned that the numerous hours
I have spent on Cyber/Chat have enhanced my reading speed. I went through 2
books in the last few days, and my eyes never tired....

I think the prolonged exposure to the magnetic field eminating from my
coputer has affected me. When I look at things, I can see what they
represent in the eyes of a god or something...I stare at my beloved Spam
can and see Satan himself, trapped in ice. what does this mean? I also had
a dream abut Blossum last night. It involved large amounts of moisture. Her
nose might be big, but she has really great......KNEES...yeah....sure. I
feel as though I am babbling right now...if you decide to skip all this
gnifty bullshit and get back to the non-fiction stuff, I don't mind. This
is more for my own personal entertaiment.  As Maynard Ferguson once said:
"She stradled my throbbing cock and pumped her cute little a--" ... No
wait...that was a letter from a reader of Penthouse.... Maynard really
said: "If it makes you happy, do it. Music is my drug, man."

Music is also a drug of mine, but Cyber/Chat was more. The geeks were my
understadning family...gosh...I feel like Mildred Montag. Anyway, things
are getting better. I just found out today that I will probably get my
braces off in 2 months. More good news...I am officially ungrounded in a
week. (Next Monday I think, that would be the 11th or so). After that date
I will be able to use my father's modem on the weekends starting the weeked
after that. So two weeks from last Friday, which is the 15th, I should be
able to make my re appearance onto the chat. The days will go slow until
then...I feel that only 2 days a week might only worsen the withdrawal
pangs though...I shall see.

Here is even more good news: the band I am currently in will be cutting a
demo soon. I am overjoyed. But there are 2 holes in me now. One that I
previously had and the one left by C/C. The other hole was made by a
drastic error on my part. I have to leave at the moment, but I think I
shall explain that in more detail when I return.

Day 10:
Well here I am again, babbling along. Coach is on. How stupid. I think I
shall turn the Rangers on. That other hole I was speaking of... Most of you
know this already...Hmm...she just called...I will explain tomorrow. Ick.

Day 12:
Had to skip day 11....some shit came up. Let us just say that the "hole"
ocurred as a result of that LOVE thang. Luckily for meself, I have found
someone else that I may get involved with.... time will tell. Things seem
to be getting better for me, but without the Chat I feel as though I am
wasting away. I heard today that Dad is adding 10 more lines. Looks like
someone else went insane too :)

I can't type as good as I used to. I think it may just be a subconcious
thing or it just may be another withdrawal symptom...now where are my
gloves? Oh yeah... heh. I think I shall take a time out and have a
conversation with myself.

******* 

How are things?

Pretty damn shitty! I got my modem taken away a few weeks ago!

Really? That must suck.

Yep. Sure as hell does, jerky!

Hey! Watch the language, bub! I don't appreciate the language!

So what, you oaf? I appreciate that ass of yours!

Wanna go up to our room?

Sure...

*******

Gee...these things always end the same. But are any of you surprised?

Damn! It is 9:44pm and I just had a Cyber/FLASHBACK...I mean I sorta phased
out of reality for a sec and thought I was in the T-conf. I hate this. I am
gonna go beat myself silly with a SCSI interface cable. BBL.


Day 14:
I have become violent. I just beat the shit out of my brother. He had it
coming I say. I fear for my mental stability. Ook. I tried calling a few
geeks last night but no one was home. I was sad. I need some sort of
therapy to handle my emotional distresses. There is only one theapy *I* can
think of: Cyber/Chat. Ook.

Day 15: 
I am officially ungrounded today. When I am at me Dad's next, I shall call
C/C and u/l this file. I know I have only been gone for about 2 weeks, but
it has seemed like an eternity to me. I hope no one has to ever go through
this.




THE SPELL OF THE YUKON AND OTHER VERSES
by ROBERT W SERVICE

Entered/proofed by Alan Light, alight@rock.concert.net
7407-B Waxhaw Creek Road, Waxhaw, NC  28173
Proofed by THE GAR, glwarner@samford.bitnet

This text is in the PUBLIC DOMAIN.




The Spell of the Yukon and Other Verses

[This text was also published (in Britain) under the title,
"Songs of a Sourdough".]






by Robert W. Service

[British-born Canadian Poet -- 1874-1958.]



Publishers
Barse & Co.

New York, N. Y.
Newark, N.J.



Copyright, 1916 by Barse & Co.
[expired in the U.S.A.]



Printed in the United States of America



[Note on text:  Italics are marked by asterisks.
Lines longer than 70 characters have been broken according to metre,
and the continuation is indented 10 spaces.]




To C. M






The Land God Forgot



*The lonely sunsets flare forlorn
  Down valleys dreadly desolate;
The lordly mountains soar in scorn
  As still as death, as stern as fate.

     The lonely sunsets flame and die;
       The giant valleys gulp the night;
     The monster mountains scrape the sky,
       Where eager stars are diamond-bright.

So gaunt against the gibbous moon,
  Piercing the silence velvet-piled,
A lone wolf howls his ancient rune --
  The fell arch-spirit of the Wild.

     O outcast land!  O leper land!
       Let the lone wolf-cry all express
     The hate insensate of thy hand,
       Thy heart's abysmal loneliness.*






CONTENTS





The Land God Forgot
  The lonely sunsets flare forlorn,

The Spell of the Yukon
  I wanted the gold, and I sought it,

The Heart of the Sourdough
  There where the mighty mountains bare their fangs unto the moon,

The Three Voices
  The waves have a story to tell me,

The Law of the Yukon
  This is the law of the Yukon, and ever she makes it plain,

The Parson's Son
  This is the song of the parson's son, as he squats in his shack
            alone,

The Call of the Wild
  Have you gazed on naked grandeur where there's nothing else to gaze
            on,

The Lone Trail
  Ye who know the Lone Trail fain would follow it,

The Pines
  We sleep in the sleep of ages, the bleak, barbarian pines,

The Lure of Little Voices
  There's a cry from out the loneliness -- oh, listen, Honey, listen!

The Song of the Wage-Slave
  When the long, long day is over, and the Big Boss gives me my pay,

Grin
  If you're up against a bruiser and you're getting knocked about,

The Shooting of Dan McGrew
  A bunch of the boys were whooping it up in the Malamute saloon,

The Cremation of Sam McGee
  There are strange things done in the midnight sun,

My Madonna
  I haled me a woman from the street,

Unforgotten
  I know a garden where the lilies gleam,

The Reckoning
   It's fine to have a blow-out in a fancy restaurant,

Quatrains
  One said:  Thy life is thine to make or mar,

The Men That Don't Fit In
  There's a race of men that don't fit in,

Music in the Bush
  O'er the dark pines she sees the silver moon,

The Rhyme of the Remittance Man
  There's a four-pronged buck a-swinging in the shadow of my cabin,

The Low-Down White
  This is the pay-day up at the mines, when the bearded brutes come
            down,

The Little Old Log Cabin
  When a man gets on his uppers in a hard-pan sort of town,

The Younger Son
  If you leave the gloom of London and you seek a glowing land,

The March of the Dead
  The cruel war was over -- oh, the triumph was so sweet,

"Fighting Mac"
  A pistol shot rings round and round the world,

The Woman and the Angel
  An angel was tired of heaven, as he lounged in the golden street,

The Rhyme of the Restless Ones
  We couldn't sit and study for the law,

New Year's Eve
  It's cruel cold on the water-front, silent and dark and drear,

Comfort
  Say!  You've struck a heap of trouble,

The Harpy
  There was a woman, and she was wise; woefully wise was she,

Premonition
  'Twas a year ago, and the moon was bright,

The Tramps
  Can you recall, dear comrade, when we tramped God's land together,

L'Envoi
  You who have lived in the land,




The Spell of the Yukon



I wanted the gold, and I sought it,
  I scrabbled and mucked like a slave.
Was it famine or scurvy -- I fought it;
  I hurled my youth into a grave.
I wanted the gold, and I got it --
  Came out with a fortune last fall, --
Yet somehow life's not what I thought it,
  And somehow the gold isn't all.

No!  There's the land.  (Have you seen it?)
  It's the cussedest land that I know,
From the big, dizzy mountains that screen it
  To the deep, deathlike valleys below.
Some say God was tired when He made it;
  Some say it's a fine land to shun;
Maybe; but there's some as would trade it
  For no land on earth -- and I'm one.

You come to get rich (damned good reason);
  You feel like an exile at first;
You hate it like hell for a season,
  And then you are worse than the worst.
It grips you like some kinds of sinning;
  It twists you from foe to a friend;
It seems it's been since the beginning;
  It seems it will be to the end.

I've stood in some mighty-mouthed hollow
  That's plumb-full of hush to the brim;
I've watched the big, husky sun wallow
  In crimson and gold, and grow dim,
Till the moon set the pearly peaks gleaming,
  And the stars tumbled out, neck and crop;
And I've thought that I surely was dreaming,
  With the peace o' the world piled on top.

The summer -- no sweeter was ever;
  The sunshiny woods all athrill;
The grayling aleap in the river,
  The bighorn asleep on the hill.
The strong life that never knows harness;
  The wilds where the caribou call;
The freshness, the freedom, the farness --
  O God! how I'm stuck on it all.

The winter! the brightness that blinds you,
  The white land locked tight as a drum,
The cold fear that follows and finds you,
  The silence that bludgeons you dumb.
The snows that are older than history,
  The woods where the weird shadows slant;
The stillness, the  moonlight, the mystery,
  I've bade 'em good-by -- but I can't.

There's a land where the mountains are nameless,
  And the rivers all run God knows where;
There are lives that are erring and aimless,
  And deaths that just hang by a hair;
There are hardships that nobody reckons;
  There are valleys unpeopled and still;
There's a land -- oh, it beckons and beckons,
  And I want to go back -- and I will.

They're making my money diminish;
  I'm sick of the taste of champagne.
Thank God! when I'm skinned to a finish
  I'll pike to the Yukon again.
I'll fight -- and you bet it's no sham-fight;
  It's hell! -- but I've been there before;
And it's better than this by a damsite --
  So me for the Yukon once more.

There's gold, and it's haunting and haunting;
  It's luring me on as of old;
Yet it isn't the gold that I'm wanting
  So much as just finding the gold.
It's the great, big, broad land 'way up yonder,
  It's the forests where silence has lease;
It's the beauty that thrills me with wonder,
  It's the stillness that fills me with peace.




The Heart of the Sourdough



There where the mighty mountains bare their fangs unto the moon,
There where the sullen sun-dogs glare in the snow-bright, bitter noon,
And the glacier-glutted streams sweep down
          at the clarion call of June.

There where the livid tundras keep
          their tryst with the tranquil snows;
There where the silences are spawned, and the light of hell-fire flows
Into the bowl of the midnight sky, violet, amber and rose.

There where the rapids churn and roar,
          and the ice-floes bellowing run;
Where the tortured, twisted rivers of blood rush to the setting sun --
I've packed my kit and I'm going, boys, ere another day is done.

     *    *    *    *    *

I knew it would call, or soon or late, as it calls the whirring wings;
It's the olden lure, it's the golden lure,
          it's the lure of the timeless things,
And to-night, oh, God of the trails untrod,
          how it whines in my heart-strings!

I'm sick to death of your well-groomed gods,
          your make believe and your show;
I long for a whiff of bacon and beans, a snug shakedown in the snow;
A trail to break, and a life at stake, and another bout with the foe.

With the raw-ribbed Wild that abhors all life,
          the Wild that would crush and rend,
I have clinched and closed with the naked North,
          I have learned to defy and defend;
Shoulder to shoulder we have fought it out --
          yet the Wild must win in the end.

I have flouted the Wild.  I have followed its lure,
          fearless, familiar, alone;
By all that the battle means and makes I claim that land for mine own;
Yet the Wild must win, and a day will come when I shall be overthrown.

Then when as wolf-dogs fight we've fought, the lean wolf-land and I;
Fought and bled till the snows are red under the reeling sky;
Even as lean wolf-dog goes down will I go down and die.




The Three Voices



The waves have a story to tell me,
  As I lie on the lonely beach;
Chanting aloft in the pine-tops,
  The wind has a lesson to teach;
But the stars sing an anthem of glory
  I cannot put into speech.

The waves tell of ocean spaces,
  Of hearts that are wild and brave,
Of populous city places,
  Of desolate shores they lave,
Of men who sally in quest of gold
  To sink in an ocean grave.

The wind is a mighty roamer;
  He bids me keep me free,
Clean from the taint of the gold-lust,
  Hardy and pure as he;
Cling with my love to nature,
  As a child to the mother-knee.

But the stars throng out in their glory,
  And they sing of the God in man;
They sing of the Mighty Master,
  Of the loom his fingers span,
Where a star or a soul is a part of the whole,
  And weft in the wondrous plan.

Here by the camp-fire's flicker,
  Deep in my blanket curled,
I long for the peace of the pine-gloom,
  When the scroll of the Lord is unfurled,
And the wind and the wave are silent,
  And world is singing to world.




The Law of the Yukon



This is the law of the Yukon, and ever she makes it plain:
"Send not your foolish and feeble;
          send me your strong and your sane --
Strong for the red rage of battle; sane for I harry them sore;
Send me men girt for the combat, men who are grit to the core;
Swift as the panther in triumph, fierce as the bear in defeat,
Sired of a bulldog parent, steeled in the furnace heat.
Send me the best of your breeding, lend me your chosen ones;
Them will I take to my bosom, them will I call my sons;
Them will I gild with my treasure, them will I glut with my meat;
But the others -- the misfits, the failures --
          I trample under my feet.
Dissolute, damned and despairful, crippled and palsied and slain,
Ye would send me the spawn of your gutters --
          Go! take back your spawn again.

"Wild and wide are my borders, stern as death is my sway;
From my ruthless throne I have ruled alone
          for a million years and a day;
Hugging my mighty treasure, waiting for man to come,
Till he swept like a turbid torrent, and after him swept -- the scum.
The pallid pimp of the dead-line, the enervate of the pen,
One by one I weeded them out, for all that I sought was -- Men.
One by one I dismayed them, frighting them sore with my glooms;
One by one I betrayed them unto my manifold dooms.
Drowned them like rats in my rivers,
          starved them like curs on my plains,
Rotted the flesh that was left them,
          poisoned the blood in their veins;
Burst with my winter upon them, searing forever their sight,
Lashed them with fungus-white faces, whimpering wild in the night;

Staggering blind through the storm-whirl,
          stumbling mad through the snow,
Frozen stiff in the ice-pack, brittle and bent like a bow;
Featureless, formless, forsaken, scented by wolves in their flight,
Left for the wind to make music
          through ribs that are glittering white;
Gnawing the black crust of failure, searching the pit of despair,
Crooking the toe in the trigger, trying to patter a prayer;
Going outside with an escort, raving with lips all afoam,
Writing a cheque for a million, driveling feebly of home;
Lost like a louse in the burning. . .or else in the tented town
Seeking a drunkard's solace, sinking and sinking down;
Steeped in the slime at the bottom, dead to a decent world,
Lost 'mid the human flotsam, far on the frontier hurled;
In the camp at the bend of the river, with its dozen saloons aglare,
Its gambling dens ariot, its gramophones all ablare;
Crimped with the crimes of a city, sin-ridden and bridled with lies,
In the hush of my mountained vastness,
          in the flush of my midnight skies.
Plague-spots, yet tools of my purpose,
          so natheless I suffer them thrive,
Crushing my Weak in their clutches, that only my Strong may survive.

"But the others, the men of my mettle,
          the men who would 'stablish my fame
Unto its ultimate issue, winning me honor, not shame;
Searching my uttermost valleys, fighting each step as they go,
Shooting the wrath of my rapids, scaling my ramparts of snow;
Ripping the guts of my mountains, looting the beds of my creeks,
Them will I take to my bosom, and speak as a mother speaks.
I am the land that listens, I am the land that broods;
Steeped in eternal beauty, crystalline waters and woods.
Long have I waited lonely, shunned as a thing accurst,
Monstrous, moody, pathetic, the last of the lands and the first;
Visioning camp-fires at twilight, sad with a longing forlorn,
Feeling my womb o'er-pregnant with the seed of cities unborn.
Wild and wide are my borders, stern as death is my sway,
And I wait for the men who will win me --
  and I will not be won in a day;
And I will not be won by weaklings, subtle, suave and mild,
But by men with the hearts of vikings,
  and the simple faith of a child;
Desperate, strong and resistless, unthrottled by fear or defeat,
Them will I gild with my treasure, them will I glut with my meat.

"Lofty I stand from each sister land, patient and wearily wise,
With the weight of a world of sadness in my quiet, passionless eyes;
Dreaming alone of a people, dreaming alone of a day,
When men shall not rape my riches, and curse me and go away;
Making a bawd of my bounty, fouling the hand that gave --
Till I rise in my wrath and I sweep on their path
          and I stamp them into a grave.
Dreaming of men who will bless me, of women esteeming me good,
Of children born in my borders of radiant motherhood,
Of cities leaping to stature, of fame like a flag unfurled,
As I pour the tide of my riches in the eager lap of the world."

This is the Law of the Yukon, that only the Strong shall thrive;
That surely the Weak shall perish, and only the Fit survive.
Dissolute, damned and despairful, crippled and palsied and slain,
This is the Will of the Yukon, -- Lo, how she makes it plain!




The Parson's Son



*This is the song of the parson's son,
          as he squats in his shack alone,
On the wild, weird nights, when the Northern Lights
          shoot up from the frozen zone,
And it's sixty below, and couched in the snow
          the hungry huskies moan:*

"I'm one of the Arctic brotherhood, I'm an old-time pioneer.
I came with the first -- O God! how I've cursed
          this Yukon -- but still I'm here.
I've sweated athirst in its summer heat,
          I've frozen and starved in its cold;
I've followed my dreams by its thousand streams,
          I've toiled and moiled for its gold.

"Look at my eyes -- been snow-blind twice;
          look where my foot's half gone;
And that gruesome scar on my left cheek,
          where the frost-fiend bit to the bone.
Each one a brand of this devil's land,
          where I've played and I've lost the game,
A broken wreck with a craze for 'hooch', and never a cent to my name.

"This mining is only a gamble; the worst is as good as the best;
I was in with the bunch and I might have come out
          right on top with the rest;
With Cormack, Ladue and MacDonald -- O God! but it's hell to think
Of the thousands and thousands I've squandered
          on cards and women and drink.

"In the early days we were just a few,
          and we hunted and fished around,
Nor dreamt by our lonely camp-fires
          of the wealth that lay under the ground.
We traded in skins and whiskey, and I've often slept under the shade
Of that lone birch tree on Bonanza, where the first big find was made.

"We were just like a great big family, and every man had his squaw,
And we lived such a wild, free, fearless life
          beyond the pale of the law;
Till sudden there came a whisper, and it maddened us every man,
And I got in on Bonanza before the big rush began.

"Oh, those Dawson days, and the sin and the blaze,
          and the town all open wide!
(If God made me in His likeness, sure He let the devil inside).
But we were all mad, both the good and the bad,
          and as for the women, well --
No spot on the map in so short a space has hustled more souls to hell.

"Money was just like dirt there, easy to get and to spend.
I was all caked in on a dance-hall jade, but she shook me in the end.
It put me queer, and for near a year I never drew sober breath,
Till I found myself in the bughouse ward
          with a claim staked out on death.

"Twenty years in the Yukon, struggling along its creeks;
Roaming its giant valleys, scaling its god-like peaks;
Bathed in its fiery sunsets, fighting its fiendish cold --
Twenty years in the Yukon. . .twenty years -- and I'm old.

"Old and weak, but no matter, there's 'hooch' in the bottle still.
I'll hitch up the dogs to-morrow, and mush down the trail to Bill.
It's so long dark, and I'm lonesome -- I'll just lay down on the bed;
To-morrow I'll go. . .to-morrow. . .I guess I'll play on the red.

". . .Come, Kit, your pony is saddled.
          I'm waiting, dear, in the court. . .
. . .Minnie, you devil, I'll kill you
          if you skip with that flossy sport. . .
. . .How much does it go to the pan, Bill?. . .
          play up, School, and play the game. . .
. . .Our Father, which art in heaven, hallowed be Thy name. . ."

*This was the song of the parson's son, as he lay in his bunk alone,
Ere the fire went out and the cold crept in,
          and his blue lips ceased to moan,
And the hunger-maddened malamutes had torn him flesh from bone.*




The Call of the Wild



Have you gazed on naked grandeur
          where there's nothing else to gaze on,
  Set pieces and drop-curtain scenes galore,
Big mountains heaved to heaven, which the blinding sunsets blazon,
  Black canyons where the rapids rip and roar?
Have you swept the visioned valley
          with the green stream streaking through it,
  Searched the Vastness for a something you have lost?
Have you strung your soul to silence?
          Then for God's sake go and do it;
  Hear the challenge, learn the lesson, pay the cost.

Have you wandered in the wilderness, the sagebrush desolation,
  The bunch-grass levels where the cattle graze?
Have you whistled bits of rag-time at the end of all creation,
  And learned to know the desert's little ways?
Have you camped upon the foothills,
          have you galloped o'er the ranges,
  Have you roamed the arid sun-lands through and through?
Have you chummed up with the mesa?
          Do you know its moods and changes?
  Then listen to the Wild -- it's calling you.

Have you known the Great White Silence,
          not a snow-gemmed twig aquiver?
  (Eternal truths that shame our soothing lies).
Have you broken trail on snowshoes? mushed your huskies up the river,
  Dared the unknown, led the way, and clutched the prize?
Have you marked the map's void spaces, mingled with the mongrel races,
  Felt the savage strength of brute in every thew?
And though grim as hell the worst is,
          can you round it off with curses?
  Then hearken to the Wild -- it's wanting you.

Have you suffered, starved and triumphed,
          groveled down, yet grasped at glory,
  Grown bigger in the bigness of the whole?
"Done things" just for the doing, letting babblers tell the story,
  Seeing through the nice veneer the naked soul?
Have you seen God in His splendors,
          heard the text that nature renders?
  (You'll never hear it in the family pew).
The simple things, the true things, the silent men who do things --
  Then listen to the Wild -- it's calling you.

They have cradled you in custom,
          they have primed you with their preaching,
  They have soaked you in convention through and through;
They have put you in a showcase; you're a credit to their teaching --
  But can't you hear the Wild? -- it's calling you.
Let us probe the silent places, let us seek what luck betide us;
  Let us journey to a lonely land I know.
There's a whisper on the night-wind,
          there's a star agleam to guide us,
  And the Wild is calling, calling. . .let us go.




The Lone Trail



*Ye who know the Lone Trail fain would follow it,
Though it lead to glory or the darkness of the pit.
Ye who take the Lone Trail, bid your love good-by;
The Lone Trail, the Lone Trail follow till you die.*

The trails of the world be countless, and most of the trails be tried;
You tread on the heels of the many,
          till you come where the ways divide;
And one lies safe in the sunlight, and the other is dreary and wan,
Yet you look aslant at the Lone Trail,
          and the Lone Trail lures you on.
And somehow you're sick of the highway,
          with its noise and its easy needs,
And you seek the risk of the by-way, and you reck not where it leads.
And sometimes it leads to the desert,
          and the tongue swells out of the mouth,
And you stagger blind to the mirage, to die in the mocking drouth.
And sometimes it leads to the mountain,
          to the light of the lone camp-fire,
And you gnaw your belt in the anguish of hunger-goaded desire.
And sometimes it leads to the Southland,
          to the swamp where the orchid glows,
And you rave to your grave with the fever,
          and they rob the corpse for its clothes.
And sometimes it leads to the Northland,
          and the scurvy softens your bones,
And your flesh dints in like putty,
          and you spit out your teeth like stones.
And sometimes it leads to a coral reef in the wash of a weedy sea,
And you sit and stare at the empty glare
          where the gulls wait greedily.
And sometimes it leads to an Arctic trail,
          and the snows where your torn feet freeze,
And you whittle away the useless clay,
          and crawl on your hands and knees.
Often it leads to the dead-pit; always it leads to pain;
By the bones of your brothers ye know it,
          but oh, to follow you're fain.
By your bones they will follow behind you,
          till the ways of the world are made plain.

*Bid good-by to sweetheart, bid good-by to friend;
The Lone Trail, the Lone Trail follow to the end.
Tarry not, and fear not, chosen of the true;
Lover of the Lone Trail, the Lone Trail waits for you.*




The Pines



We sleep in the sleep of ages, the bleak, barbarian pines;
The gray moss drapes us like sages, and closer we lock our lines,
And deeper we clutch through the gelid gloom
          where never a sunbeam shines.

On the flanks of the storm-gored ridges
          are our black battalions massed;
We surge in a host to the sullen coast,
          and we sing in the ocean blast;
From empire of sea to empire of snow we grip our empire fast.

To the niggard lands were we driven,
          'twixt desert and floes are we penned;
To us was the Northland given, ours to stronghold and defend;
Ours till the world be riven in the crash of the utter end;

Ours from the bleak beginning, through the aeons of death-like sleep;
Ours from the shock when the naked rock
          was hurled from the hissing deep;
Ours through the twilight ages of weary glacier creep.

Wind of the East, Wind of the West, wandering to and fro,
Chant your songs in our topmost boughs, that the sons of men may know
The peerless pine was the first to come,
          and the pine will be last to go!

We pillar the halls of perfumed gloom; we plume where the eagles soar;
The North-wind swoops from the brooding Pole,
          and our ancients crash and roar;
But where one falls from the crumbling walls shoots up a hardy score.

We spring from the gloom of the canyon's womb;
          in the valley's lap we lie;
From the white foam-fringe, where the breakers cringe
          to the peaks that tusk the sky,
We climb, and we peer in the crag-locked mere
          that gleams like a golden eye.

Gain to the verge of the hog-back ridge where the vision ranges free:
Pines and pines and the shadow of pines as far as the eye can see;
A steadfast legion of stalwart knights in dominant empery.

Sun, moon and stars give answer; shall we not staunchly stand,
Even as now, forever, wards of the wilder strand,
Sentinels of the stillness, lords of the last, lone land?




The Lure of Little Voices



There's a cry from out the loneliness -- oh, listen, Honey, listen!
  Do you hear it, do you fear it, you're a-holding of me so?
You're a-sobbing in your sleep, dear,
          and your lashes, how they glisten --
  Do you hear the Little Voices all a-begging me to go?

All a-begging me to leave you.
          Day and night they're pleading, praying,
  On the North-wind, on the West-wind,
          from the peak and from the plain;
Night and day they never leave me -- do you know what they are saying?
  "He was ours before you got him, and we want him once again."

Yes, they're wanting me, they're haunting me, the awful lonely places;
  They're whining and they're whimpering as if each had a soul;
They're calling from the wilderness, the vast and God-like spaces,
  The stark and sullen solitudes that sentinel the Pole.

They miss my little camp-fires, ever brightly, bravely gleaming
  In the womb of desolation, where was never man before;
As comradeless I sought them, lion-hearted, loving, dreaming,
  And they hailed me as a comrade, and they loved me evermore.

And now they're all a-crying, and it's no use me denying;
  The spell of them is on me and I'm helpless as a child;
My heart is aching, aching, but I hear them, sleeping, waking;
  It's the Lure of Little Voices, it's the mandate of the Wild.

I'm afraid to tell you, Honey, I can take no bitter leaving;
  But softly in the sleep-time from your love I'll steal away.
Oh, it's cruel, dearie, cruel, and it's God knows how I'm grieving;
  But His loneliness is calling, and He knows I must obey.




The Song of the Wage-Slave



When the long, long day is over, and the Big Boss gives me my pay,
I hope that it won't be hell-fire, as some of the parsons say.
And I hope that it won't be heaven,
          with some of the parsons I've met --
All I want is just quiet, just to rest and forget.
Look at my face, toil-furrowed; look at my calloused hands;
Master, I've done Thy bidding, wrought in Thy many lands --
Wrought for the little masters, big-bellied they be, and rich;
I've done their desire for a daily hire,
          and I die like a dog in a ditch.
I have used the strength Thou hast given,
          Thou knowest I did not shirk;
Threescore years of labor -- Thine be the long day's work.
And now, Big Master, I'm broken and bent and twisted and scarred,
But I've held my job, and Thou knowest,
          and Thou will not judge me hard.
Thou knowest my sins are many, and often I've played the fool --
Whiskey and cards and women, they made me the devil's tool.
I was just like a child with money; I flung it away with a curse,
Feasting a fawning parasite, or glutting a harlot's purse;
Then back to the woods repentant, back to the mill or the mine,
I, the worker of workers, everything in my line.
Everything hard but headwork (I'd no more brains than a kid),
A brute with brute strength to labor, doing as I was bid;
Living in camps with men-folk, a lonely and loveless life;
Never knew kiss of sweetheart, never caress of wife.
A brute with brute strength to labor, and they were so far above --
Yet I'd gladly have gone to the gallows for one little look of Love.
I, with the strength to two men, savage and shy and wild --
Yet how I'd ha' treasured a woman,
          and the sweet, warm kiss of a child!
Well, 'tis Thy world, and Thou knowest.
          I blaspheme and my ways be rude;
But I've lived my life as I found it,
          and I've done my best to be good;
I, the primitive toiler, half naked and grimed to the eyes,
Sweating it deep in their ditches, swining it stark in their styes;
Hurling down forests before me, spanning tumultuous streams;
Down in the ditch building o'er me palaces fairer than dreams;
Boring the rock to the ore-bed, driving the road through the fen,
Resolute, dumb, uncomplaining, a man in a world of men.
Master, I've filled my contract, wrought in Thy many lands;
Not by my sins wilt Thou judge me, but by the work of my hands.
Master, I've done Thy bidding, and the light is low in the west,
And the long, long shift is over. . .Master, I've earned it -- Rest.




Grin



If you're up against a bruiser and you're getting knocked about --
                                        Grin.
If you're feeling pretty groggy, and you're licked beyond a doubt --
                                        Grin.
Don't let him see you're funking, let him know with every clout,
Though your face is battered to a pulp, your blooming heart is stout;
Just stand upon your pins until the beggar knocks you out --
                                        And grin.
This life's a bally battle, and the same advice holds true
                                        Of grin.
If you're up against it badly, then it's only one on you,
                                        So grin.
If the future's black as thunder, don't let people see you're blue;
Just cultivate a cast-iron smile of joy the whole day through;
If they call you "Little Sunshine",
  wish that *they'd* no troubles, too --
                                        You may -- grin.
Rise up in the morning with the will that, smooth or rough,
                                        You'll grin.
Sink to sleep at midnight, and although you're feeling tough,
                                        Yet grin.
There's nothing gained by whining, and you're not that kind of stuff;
You're a fighter from away back, and you *won't* take a rebuff;
Your trouble is that you don't know when you have had enough --
                                        Don't give in.
If Fate should down you, just get up and take another cuff;
You may bank on it that there is no philosophy like bluff,
                                        And grin.




The Shooting of Dan McGrew



A bunch of the boys were whooping it up in the Malamute saloon;
The kid that handles the music-box was hitting a jag-time tune;
Back of the bar, in a solo game, sat Dangerous Dan McGrew,
And watching his luck was his light-o'-love,
          the lady that's known as Lou.

When out of the night, which was fifty below,
          and into the din and the glare,
There stumbled a miner fresh from the creeks,
          dog-dirty, and loaded for bear.
He looked like a man with a foot in the grave
          and scarcely the strength of a louse,
Yet he tilted a poke of dust on the bar,
          and he called for drinks for the house.
There was none could place the stranger's face,
          though we searched ourselves for a clue;
But we drank his health, and the last to drink
          was Dangerous Dan McGrew.

There's men that somehow just grip your eyes,
          and hold them hard like a spell;
And such was he, and he looked to me like a man who had lived in hell;
With a face most hair, and the dreary stare
          of a dog whose day is done,
As he watered the green stuff in his glass,
          and the drops fell one by one.
Then I got to figgering who he was, and wondering what he'd do,
And I turned my head -- and there watching him
          was the lady that's known as Lou.

His eyes went rubbering round the room,
          and he seemed in a kind of daze,
Till at last that old piano fell in the way of his wandering gaze.
The rag-time kid was having a drink;
          there was no one else on the stool,
So the stranger stumbles across the room,
          and flops down there like a fool.
In a buckskin shirt that was glazed with dirt
          he sat, and I saw him sway;
Then he clutched the keys with his talon hands
          -- my God! but that man could play.

Were you ever out in the Great Alone, when the moon was awful clear,
And the icy mountains hemmed you in
          with a silence you most could *hear*;
With only the howl of a timber wolf, and you camped there in the cold,
A half-dead thing in a stark, dead world,
          clean mad for the muck called gold;
While high overhead, green, yellow and red,
          the North Lights swept in bars? --
Then you've a haunch what the music meant. . .
          hunger and night and the stars.

And hunger not of the belly kind,
          that's banished with bacon and beans,
But the gnawing hunger of lonely men for a home and all that it means;
For a fireside far from the cares that are,
          four walls and a roof above;
But oh! so cramful of cosy joy, and crowned with a woman's love --
A woman dearer than all the world, and true as Heaven is true --
(God! how ghastly she looks through her rouge, --
          the lady that's known as Lou).

Then on a sudden the music changed,
          so soft that you scarce could hear;
But you felt that your life had been looted clean
          of all that it once held dear;
That someone had stolen the woman you loved;
          that her love was a devil's lie;
That your guts were gone, and the best for you
          was to crawl away and die.
'Twas the crowning cry of a heart's despair,
          and it thrilled you through and through --
"I guess I'll make it a spread misere", said Dangerous Dan McGrew.

The music almost died away. . .then it burst like a pent-up flood;
And it seemed to say, "Repay, repay",
          and my eyes were blind with blood.
The thought came back of an ancient wrong,
          and it stung like a frozen lash,
And the lust awoke to kill, to kill. . .
          then the music stopped with a crash,
And the stranger turned, and his eyes they burned
          in a most peculiar way;
In a buckskin shirt that was glazed with dirt
          he sat, and I saw him sway;
Then his lips went in in a kind of grin,
          and he spoke, and his voice was calm,
And "Boys," says he, "you don't know me, and none of you care a damn;
But I want to state, and my words are straight,
          and I'll bet my poke they're true,
That one of you is a hound of hell. . .and that one is Dan McGrew."

Then I ducked my head, and the lights went out,
          and two guns blazed in the dark,
And a woman screamed, and the lights went up,
          and two men lay stiff and stark.
Pitched on his head, and pumped full of lead,
          was Dangerous Dan McGrew,
While the man from the creeks lay clutched to the breast
          of the lady that's known as Lou.

These are the simple facts of the case, and I guess I ought to know.
They say the stranger was crazed with "hooch",
          and I'm not denying it's so.
I'm not so wise as the lawyer guys, but strictly between us two --
The woman that kissed him and -- pinched his poke --
          was the lady that's known as Lou.




The Cremation of Sam Mcgee



*There are strange things done in the midnight sun
  By the men who moil for gold;
The Arctic trails have their secret tales
  That would make your blood run cold;
The Northern Lights have seen queer sights,
  But the queerest they ever did see
Was that night on the marge of Lake Lebarge
  I cremated Sam McGee.*

Now Sam McGee was from Tennessee, where the cotton blooms and blows.
Why he left his home in the South to roam
          'round the Pole, God only knows.
He was always cold, but the land of gold
          seemed to hold him like a spell;
Though he'd often say in his homely way
          that he'd "sooner live in hell".

On a Christmas Day we were mushing our way over the Dawson trail.
Talk of your cold! through the parka's fold
          it stabbed like a driven nail.
If our eyes we'd close, then the lashes froze
          till sometimes we couldn't see;
It wasn't much fun, but the only one to whimper was Sam McGee.

And that very night, as we lay packed tight
          in our robes beneath the snow,
And the dogs were fed, and the stars o'erhead
          were dancing heel and toe,
He turned to me, and "Cap," says he, "I'll cash in this trip, I guess;
And if I do, I'm asking that you won't refuse my last request."

Well, he seemed so low that I couldn't say no;
          then he says with a sort of moan:
"It's the cursed cold, and it's got right hold
          till I'm chilled clean through to the bone.
Yet 'tain't being dead -- it's my awful dread
          of the icy grave that pains;
So I want you to swear that, foul or fair,
          you'll cremate my last remains."

A pal's last need is a thing to heed, so I swore I would not fail;
And we started on at the streak of dawn;
          but God! he looked ghastly pale.
He crouched on the sleigh, and he raved all day
          of his home in Tennessee;
And before nightfall a corpse was all that was left of Sam McGee.

There wasn't a breath in that land of death,
          and I hurried, horror-driven,
With a corpse half hid that I couldn't get rid,
          because of a promise given;
It was lashed to the sleigh, and it seemed to say:
          "You may tax your brawn and brains,
But you promised true, and it's up to you
          to cremate those last remains."

Now a promise made is a debt unpaid,
          and the trail has its own stern code.
In the days to come, though my lips were dumb,
          in my heart how I cursed that load.
In the long, long night, by the lone firelight,
          while the huskies, round in a ring,
Howled out their woes to the homeless snows --
          O God! how I loathed the thing.

And every day that quiet clay seemed to heavy and heavier grow;
And on I went, though the dogs were spent
          and the grub was getting low;
The trail was bad, and I felt half mad,
          but I swore I would not give in;
And I'd often sing to the hateful thing, and it hearkened with a grin.

Till I came to the marge of Lake Lebarge, and a derelict there lay;
It was jammed in the ice, but I saw in a trice
          it was called the "Alice May".
And I looked at it, and I thought a bit,
          and I looked at my frozen chum;
Then "Here", said I, with a sudden cry, "is my cre-ma-tor-eum."

Some planks I tore from the cabin floor, and I lit the boiler fire;
Some coal I found that was lying around, and I heaped the fuel higher;
The flames just soared, and the furnace roared --
          such a blaze you seldom see;
And I burrowed a hole in the glowing coal, and I stuffed in Sam McGee.

Then I made a hike, for I didn't like to hear him sizzle so;
And the heavens scowled, and the huskies howled,
          and the wind began to blow.
It was icy cold, but the hot sweat rolled
          down my cheeks, and I don't know why;
And the greasy smoke in an inky cloak went streaking down the sky.

I do not know how long in the snow I wrestled with grisly fear;
But the stars came out and they danced about
          ere again I ventured near;
I was sick with dread, but I bravely said:
          "I'll just take a peep inside.
I guess he's cooked, and it's time I looked";. . .
          then the door I opened wide.

And there sat Sam, looking cool and calm,
          in the heart of the furnace roar;
And he wore a smile you could see a mile,
          and he said:  "Please close that door.
It's fine in here, but I greatly fear
          you'll let in the cold and storm --
Since I left Plumtree, down in Tennessee,
          it's the first time I've been warm."


*There are strange things done in the midnight sun
  By the men who moil for gold;
The Arctic trails have their secret tales
  That would make your blood run cold;
The Northern Lights have seen queer sights,
  But the queerest they ever did see
Was that night on the marge of Lake Lebarge
  I cremated Sam McGee.*




My Madonna



I haled me a woman from the street,
  Shameless, but, oh, so fair!
I bade her sit in the model's seat
  And I painted her sitting there.

I hid all trace of her heart unclean;
  I painted a babe at her breast;
I painted her as she might have been
  If the Worst had been the Best.

She laughed at my picture and went away.
  Then came, with a knowing nod,
A connoisseur, and I heard him say;
  "'Tis Mary, the Mother of God."

So I painted a halo round her hair,
  And I sold her and took my fee,
And she hangs in the church of Saint Hillaire,
  Where you and all may see.




Unforgotten



I know a garden where the lilies gleam,
  And one who lingers in the sunshine there;
  She is than white-stoled lily far more fair,
And oh, her eyes are heaven-lit with dream!

I know a garret, cold and dark and drear,
  And one who toils and toils with tireless pen,
  Until his brave, sad eyes grow weary -- then
He seeks the stars, pale, silent as a seer.

And ah, it's strange; for, desolate and dim,
  Between these two there rolls an ocean wide;
  Yet he is in the garden by her side
And she is in the garret there with him.




The Reckoning



It's fine to have a blow-out in a fancy restaurant,
With terrapin and canvas-back and all the wine you want;
To enjoy the flowers and music, watch the pretty women pass,
Smoke a choice cigar, and sip the wealthy water in your glass.
It's bully in a high-toned joint to eat and drink your fill,
But it's quite another matter when you
                                        Pay the bill.

It's great to go out every night on fun or pleasure bent;
To wear your glad rags always and to never save a cent;
To drift along regardless, have a good time every trip;
To hit the high spots sometimes, and to let your chances slip;
To know you're acting foolish, yet to go on fooling still,
Till Nature calls a show-down, and you
                                        Pay the bill.

Time has got a little bill -- get wise while yet you may,
For the debit side's increasing in a most alarming way;
The things you had no right to do, the things you should have done,
They're all put down; it's up to you to pay for every one.
So eat, drink and be merry, have a good time if you will,
But God help you when the time comes, and you
                                        Foot the bill.




Quatrains



One said:  Thy life is thine to make or mar,
To flicker feebly, or to soar, a star;
  It lies with thee -- the choice is thine, is thine,
To hit the ties or drive thy auto-car.

I answered Her:  The choice is mine -- ah, no!
We all were made or marred long, long ago.
  The parts are written; hear the super wail:
"Who is stage-managing this cosmic show?"

Blind fools of fate and slaves of circumstance,
Life is a fiddler, and we all must dance.
  From gloom where mocks that will-o'-wisp, Free-will
I heard a voice cry:  "Say, give us a chance."

Chance!  Oh, there is no chance!  The scene is set,
Up with the curtain!  Man, the marionette,
  Resumes his part.  The gods will work the wires.
They've got it all down fine, you bet, you bet!

It's all decreed -- the mighty earthquake crash,
The countless constellations' wheel and flash;
  The rise and fall of empires, war's red tide;
The composition of your dinner hash.

There's no haphazard in this world of ours.
Cause and effect are grim, relentless powers.
  They rule the world.  (A king was shot last night;
Last night I held the joker and both bowers.)

From out the mesh of fate our heads we thrust.
We can't do what we would, but what we must.
  Heredity has got us in a cinch --
(Consoling thought when you've been on a "bust".)

Hark to the song where spheral voices blend:
"There's no beginning, never will be end."
  It makes us nutty; hang the astral chimes!
The tables spread; come, let us dine, my friend.




The Men That Don't Fit In



There's a race of men that don't fit in,
  A race that can't stay still;
So they break the hearts of kith and kin,
  And they roam the world at will.
They range the field and they rove the flood,
  And they climb the mountain's crest;
Theirs is the curse of the gypsy blood,
  And they don't know how to rest.

If they just went straight they might go far;
  They are strong and brave and true;
But they're always tired of the things that are,
  And they want the strange and new.
They say:  "Could I find my proper groove,
  What a deep mark I would make!"
So they chop and change, and each fresh move
  Is only a fresh mistake.

And each forgets, as he strips and runs
  With a brilliant, fitful pace,
It's the steady, quiet, plodding ones
  Who win in the lifelong race.
And each forgets that his youth has fled,
  Forgets that his prime is past,
Till he stands one day, with a hope that's dead,
  In the glare of the truth at last.

He has failed, he has failed; he has missed his chance;
  He has just done things by half.
Life's been a jolly good joke on him,
  And now is the time to laugh.
Ha, ha!  He is one of the Legion Lost;
  He was never meant to win;
He's a rolling stone, and it's bred in the bone;
  He's a man who won't fit in.




Music in the Bush



O'er the dark pines she sees the silver moon,
  And in the west, all tremulous, a star;
And soothing sweet she hears the mellow tune
  Of cow-bells jangled in the fields afar.

Quite listless, for her daily stent is done,
  She stands, sad exile, at her rose-wreathed door,
And sends her love eternal with the sun
  That goes to gild the land she'll see no more.

The grave, gaunt pines imprison her sad gaze,
  All still the sky and darkling drearily;
She feels the chilly breath of dear, dead days
  Come sifting through the alders eerily.

Oh, how the roses riot in their bloom!
  The curtains stir as with an ancient pain;
Her old piano gleams from out the gloom
  And waits and waits her tender touch in vain.

But now her hands like moonlight brush the keys
  With velvet grace -- melodious delight;
And now a sad refrain from over seas
  Goes sobbing on the bosom of the night;

And now she sings.  (O! singer in the gloom,
  Voicing a sorrow we can ne'er express,
Here in the Farness where we few have room
  Unshamed to show our love and tenderness,

Our hearts will echo, till they beat no more,
  That song of sadness and of motherland;
And, stretched in deathless love to England's shore,
  Some day she'll hearken and she'll understand.)

A prima-donna in the shining past,
  But now a mother growing old and gray,
She thinks of how she held a people fast
  In thrall, and gleaned the triumphs of a day.

She sees a sea of faces like a dream;
  She sees herself a queen of song once more;
She sees lips part in rapture, eyes agleam;
  She sings as never once she sang before.

She sings a wild, sweet song that throbs with pain,
  The added pain of life that transcends art --
A song of home, a deep, celestial strain,
  The glorious swan-song of a dying heart.

A lame tramp comes along the railway track,
  A grizzled dog whose day is nearly done;
He passes, pauses, then comes slowly back
  And listens there -- an audience of one.

She sings -- her golden voice is passion-fraught,
  As when she charmed a thousand eager ears;
He listens trembling, and she knows it not,
  And down his hollow cheeks roll bitter tears.

She ceases and is still, as if to pray;
  There is no sound, the stars are all alight --
Only a wretch who stumbles on his way,
  Only a vagrant sobbing in the night.




The Rhyme of the Remittance Man



There's a four-pronged buck a-swinging in the shadow of my cabin,
  And it roamed the velvet valley till to-day;
But I tracked it by the river, and I trailed it in the cover,
  And I killed it on the mountain miles away.
Now I've had my lazy supper, and the level sun is gleaming
  On the water where the silver salmon play;
And I light my little corn-cob, and I linger, softly dreaming,
  In the twilight, of a land that's far away.

Far away, so faint and far, is flaming London, fevered Paris,
  That I fancy I have gained another star;
Far away the din and hurry, far away the sin and worry,
  Far away -- God knows they cannot be too far.
Gilded galley-slaves of Mammon --
          how my purse-proud brothers taunt me!
  I might have been as well-to-do as they
Had I clutched like them my chances,
          learned their wisdom, crushed my fancies,
  Starved my soul and gone to business every day.

Well, the cherry bends with blossom and the vivid grass is springing,
  And the star-like lily nestles in the green;
And the frogs their joys are singing, and my heart in tune is ringing,
  And it doesn't matter what I might have been.
While above the scented pine-gloom, piling heights of golden glory,
  The sun-god paints his canvas in the west,
I can couch me deep in clover, I can listen to the story
  Of the lazy, lapping water -- it is best.

While the trout leaps in the river,
          and the blue grouse thrills the cover,
  And the frozen snow betrays the panther's track,
And the robin greets the dayspring with the rapture of a lover,
  I am happy, and I'll nevermore go back.
For I know I'd just be longing for the little old log cabin,
  With the morning-glory clinging to the door,
Till I loathed the city places, cursed the care on all the faces,
  Turned my back on lazar London evermore.

So send me far from Lombard Street, and write me down a failure;
  Put a little in my purse and leave me free.
Say:  "He turned from Fortune's offering to follow up a pale lure,
  He is one of us no longer -- let him be."
I am one of you no longer; by the trails my feet have broken,
  The dizzy peaks I've scaled, the camp-fire's glow;
By the lonely seas I've sailed in -- yea, the final word is spoken,
  I am signed and sealed to nature.  Be it so.




The Low-Down White



This is the pay-day up at the mines,
          when the bearded brutes come down;
There's money to burn in the streets to-night,
          so I've sent my klooch to town,
With a haggard face and a ribband of red
          entwined in her hair of brown.

And I know at the dawn she'll come reeling home
          with the bottles, one, two, three --
One for herself, to drown her shame, and two big bottles for me.
To make me forget the thing I am and the man I used to be.

To make me forget the brand of the dog,
          as I crouch in this hideous place;
To make me forget once I kindled the light of love in a lady's face,
Where even the squalid Siwash now holds me a black disgrace.

Oh, I have guarded my secret well! And who would dream as I speak
In a tribal tongue like a rogue unhung,
          'mid the ranch-house filth and reek,
I could roll to bed with a Latin phrase
          and rise with a verse of Greek?

Yet I was a senior prizeman once, and the pride of a college eight;
Called to the bar -- my friends were true!
          but they could not keep me straight;
Then came the divorce, and I went abroad
          and "died" on the River Plate.

But I'm not dead yet; though with half a lung
          there isn't time to spare,
And I hope that the year will see me out,
          and, thank God, no one will care --
Save maybe the little slim Siwash girl
          with the rose of shame in her hair.

She will come with the dawn, and the dawn is near;
          I can see its evil glow,
Like a corpse-light seen through a frosty pane
          in a night of want and woe;
And yonder she comes by the bleak bull-pines,
          swift staggering through the snow.




The Little Old Log Cabin



When a man gits on his uppers in a hard-pan sort of town,
  An' he ain't got nothin' comin' an' he can't afford ter eat,
An' he's in a fix for lodgin' an' he wanders up an' down,
  An' you'd fancy he'd been boozin', he's so locoed 'bout the feet;
When he's feelin' sneakin' sorry an' his belt is hangin' slack,
  An' his face is peaked an' gray-like
            an' his heart gits down an' whines,
Then he's apt ter git a-thinkin' an' a-wishin' he was back
  In the little ol' log cabin in the shadder of the pines.

When he's on the blazin' desert an' his canteen's sprung a leak,
  An' he's all alone an' crazy an' he's crawlin' like a snail,
An' his tongue's so black an' swollen
          that it hurts him fer to speak,
  An' he gouges down fer water an' the raven's on his trail;
When he's done with care and cursin'
          an' he feels more like to cry,
  An' he sees ol' Death a-grinnin' an' he thinks upon his crimes,
Then he's like ter hev' a vision, as he settles down ter die,
  Of the little ol' log cabin an' the roses an' the vines.

Oh, the little ol' log cabin, it's a solemn shinin' mark,
  When a feller gits ter sinnin' an' a-goin' ter the wall,
An' folks don't understand him an' he's gropin' in the dark,
  An' he's sick of bein' cursed at an' he's longin' fer his call!
When the sun of life's a-sinkin' you can see it 'way above,
  On the hill from out the shadder in a glory 'gin the sky,
An' your mother's voice is callin',
          an' her arms are stretched in love,
  An' somehow you're glad you're goin', an' you ain't a-scared to die;
When you'll be like a kid again an' nestle to her breast,
  An' never leave its shelter, an' forget, an' love, an' rest.




The Younger Son



If you leave the gloom of London and you seek a glowing land,
  Where all except the flag is strange and new,
There's a bronzed and stalwart fellow who will grip you by the hand,
  And greet you with a welcome warm and true;
For he's your younger brother, the one you sent away
  Because there wasn't room for him at home;
And now he's quite contented, and he's glad he didn't stay,
  And he's building Britain's greatness o'er the foam.

When the giant herd is moving at the rising of the sun,
  And the prairie is lit with rose and gold,
And the camp is all abustle, and the busy day's begun,
  He leaps into the saddle sure and bold.
Through the round of heat and hurry, through the racket and the rout,
  He rattles at a pace that nothing mars;
And when the night-winds whisper and camp-fires flicker out,
  He is sleeping like a child beneath the stars.

When the wattle-blooms are drooping in the sombre shed-oak glade,
  And the breathless land is lying in a swoon,
He leaves his work a moment, leaning lightly on his spade,
  And he hears the bell-bird chime the Austral noon.
The parrakeets are silent in the gum-tree by the creek;
  The ferny grove is sunshine-steeped and still;
But the dew will gem the myrtle in the twilight ere he seek
  His little lonely cabin on the hill.

Around the purple, vine-clad slope the argent river dreams;
  The roses almost hide the house from view;
A snow-peak of the Winterberg in crimson splendor gleams;
  The shadow deepens down on the karroo.
He seeks the lily-scented dusk beneath the orange tree;
  His pipe in silence glows and fades and glows;
And then two little maids come out and climb upon his knee,
  And one is like the lily, one the rose.

He sees his white sheep dapple o'er the green New Zealand plain,
  And where Vancouver's shaggy ramparts frown,
When the sunlight threads the pine-gloom he is fighting might and main
  To clinch the rivets of an Empire down.
You will find him toiling, toiling, in the south or in the west,
  A child of nature, fearless, frank, and free;
And the warmest heart that beats for you is beating in his breast,
  And he sends you loyal greeting o'er the sea.

You've a brother in the army, you've another in the Church;
  One of you is a diplomatic swell;
You've had the pick of everything and left him in the lurch,
  And yet I think he's doing very well.
I'm sure his life is happy, and he doesn't envy yours;
  I know he loves the land his pluck has won;
And I fancy in the years unborn, while England's fame endures,
  She will come to bless with pride -- The Younger Son.




The March of the Dead



The cruel war was over -- oh, the triumph was so sweet!
  We watched the troops returning, through our tears;
There was triumph, triumph, triumph
          down the scarlet glittering street,
And you scarce could hear the music for the cheers.
  And you scarce could see the house-tops
          for the flags that flew between;
  The bells were pealing madly to the sky;
And everyone was shouting for the Soldiers of the Queen,
  And the glory of an age was passing by.

And then there came a shadow, swift and sudden, dark and drear;
  The bells were silent, not an echo stirred.
The flags were drooping sullenly, the men forgot to cheer;
  We waited, and we never spoke a word.
The sky grew darker, darker, till from out the gloomy rack
  There came a voice that checked the heart with dread:
"Tear down, tear down your bunting now, and hang up sable black;
  They are coming -- it's the Army of the Dead."

They were coming, they were coming, gaunt and ghastly, sad and slow;
  They were coming, all the crimson wrecks of pride;
With faces seared, and cheeks red smeared, and haunting eyes of woe,
  And clotted holes the khaki couldn't hide.
Oh, the clammy brow of anguish! the livid, foam-flecked lips!
  The reeling ranks of ruin swept along!
The limb that trailed, the hand that failed, the bloody finger tips!
  And oh, the dreary rhythm of their song!

"They left us on the veldt-side, but we felt we couldn't stop
  On this, our England's crowning festal day;
We're the men of Magersfontein, we're the men of Spion Kop,
  Colenso -- we're the men who had to pay.
We're the men who paid the blood-price.
          Shall the grave be all our gain?
  You owe us.  Long and heavy is the score.
Then cheer us for our glory now, and cheer us for our pain,
  And cheer us as ye never cheered before."

The folks were white and stricken,
          and each tongue seemed weighted with lead;
  Each heart was clutched in hollow hand of ice;
And every eye was staring at the horror of the dead,
  The pity of the men who paid the price.
They were come, were come to mock us, in the first flush of our peace;
  Through writhing lips their teeth were all agleam;
They were coming in their thousands -- oh, would they never cease!
  I closed my eyes, and then -- it was a dream.

There was triumph, triumph, triumph down the scarlet gleaming street;
  The town was mad; a man was like a boy.
A thousand flags were flaming where the sky and city meet;
  A thousand bells were thundering the joy.
There was music, mirth and sunshine; but some eyes shone with regret;
  And while we stun with cheers our homing braves,
O God, in Thy great mercy, let us nevermore forget
  The graves they left behind, the bitter graves.




"Fighting Mac"

A Life Tragedy



A pistol shot rings round and round the world;
  In pitiful defeat a warrior lies.
A last defiance to dark Death is hurled,
  A last wild challenge shocks the sunlit skies.
  Alone he falls, with wide, wan, woeful eyes:
Eyes that could smile at death -- could not face shame.

Alone, alone he paced his narrow room,
  In the bright sunshine of that Paris day;
Saw in his thought the awful hand of doom;
  Saw in his dream his glory pass away;
  Tried in his heart, his weary heart, to pray:
"O God! who made me, give me strength to face
The spectre of this bitter, black disgrace."

     *    *    *    *    *

The burn brawls darkly down the shaggy glen;
  The bee-kissed heather blooms around the door;
He sees himself a barefoot boy again,
  Bending o'er page of legendary lore.
  He hears the pibroch, grips the red claymore,
Runs with the Fiery Cross, a clansman true,
Sworn kinsman of Rob Roy and Roderick Dhu.

Eating his heart out with a wild desire,
  One day, behind his counter trim and neat,
He hears a sound that sets his brain afire --
  The Highlanders are marching down the street.
  Oh, how the pipes shrill out, the mad drums beat!
"On to the gates of Hell, my Gordons gay!"
He flings his hated yardstick away.

He sees the sullen pass, high-crowned with snow,
  Where Afghans cower with eyes of gleaming hate.
He hurls himself against the hidden foe.
  They try to rally -- ah, too late, too late!
  Again, defenseless, with fierce eyes that wait
For death, he stands, like baited bull at bay,
And flouts the Boers, that mad Majuba day.

He sees again the murderous Soudan,
  Blood-slaked and rapine-swept.  He seems to stand
Upon the gory plain of Omdurman.
  Then Magersfontein, and supreme command
  Over his Highlanders.  To shake his hand
A King is proud, and princes call him friend.
And glory crowns his life -- and now the end,

The awful end.  His eyes are dark with doom;
  He hears the shrapnel shrieking overhead;
He sees the ravaged ranks, the flame-stabbed gloom.
  Oh, to have fallen! -- the battle-field his bed,
  With Wauchope and his glorious brother-dead.
Why was he saved for this, for this?  And now
He raises the revolver to his brow.

     *    *    *    *    *

In many a Highland home, framed with rude art,
  You'll find his portrait, rough-hewn, stern and square;
It's graven in the Fuyam fellah's heart;
  The Ghurka reads it at his evening prayer;
  The raw lands know it, where the fierce suns glare;
The Dervish fears it.  Honor to his name
Who holds aloft the shield of England's fame.

Mourn for our hero, men of Northern race!
  We do not know his sin; we only know
His sword was keen.  He laughed death in the face,
  And struck, for Empire's sake, a giant blow.
  His arm was strong.  Ah! well they learnt, the foe
The echo of his deeds is ringing yet --
Will ring for aye.  All else. . .let us forget.




The Woman and the Angel



An angel was tired of heaven, as he lounged in the golden street;
His halo was tilted sideways, and his harp lay mute at his feet;
So the Master stooped in His pity, and gave him a pass to go,
For the space of a moon, to the earth-world,
          to mix with the men below.

He doffed his celestial garments, scarce waiting to lay them straight;
He bade good by to Peter, who stood by the golden gate;
The sexless singers of heaven chanted a fond farewell,
And the imps looked up as they pattered on the red-hot flags of hell.

Never was seen such an angel -- eyes of heavenly blue,
Features that shamed Apollo, hair of a golden hue;
The women simply adored him; his lips were like Cupid's bow;
But he never ventured to use them -- and so they voted him slow.

Till at last there came One Woman, a marvel of loveliness,
And she whispered to him:  "Do you love me?"
          And he answered that woman, "Yes."
And she said:  "Put your arms around me,
          and kiss me, and hold me -- so --"
But fiercely he drew back, saying: "This thing is wrong, and I know."

Then sweetly she mocked his scruples, and softly she him beguiled:
"You, who are verily man among men, speak with the tongue of a child.
We have outlived the old standards;
          we have burst, like an over-tight thong,
The ancient, outworn, Puritanic traditions of Right and Wrong."

Then the Master feared for His angel,
          and called him again to His side,
For oh, the woman was wondrous, and oh, the angel was tried!
And deep in his hell sang the Devil,
          and this was the strain of his song:
"The ancient, outworn, Puritanic traditions of Right and Wrong."




The Rhyme of the Restless Ones



We couldn't sit and study for the law;
  The stagnation of a bank we couldn't stand;
For our riot blood was surging, and we didn't need much urging
  To excitements and excesses that are banned.
So we took to wine and drink and other things,
  And the devil in us struggled to be free;
Till our friends rose up in wrath, and they pointed out the path,
  And they paid our debts and packed us o'er the sea.

Oh, they shook us off and shipped us o'er the foam,
To the larger lands that lure a man to roam;
  And we took the chance they gave
  Of a far and foreign grave,
And we bade good-by for evermore to home.

And some of us are climbing on the peak,
  And some of us are camping on the plain;
By pine and palm you'll find us, with never claim to bind us,
  By track and trail you'll meet us once again.

We are the fated serfs to freedom -- sky and sea;
  We have failed where slummy cities overflow;
But the stranger ways of earth know our pride and know our worth,
  And we go into the dark as fighters go.

Yes, we go into the night as brave men go,
Though our faces they be often streaked with woe;
  Yet we're hard as cats to kill,
  And our hearts are reckless still,
And we've danced with death a dozen times or so.

And you'll find us in Alaska after gold,
  And you'll find us herding cattle in the South.
We like strong drink and fun, and, when the race is run,
  We often die with curses in our mouth.
We are wild as colts unbroke, but never mean.
  Of our sins we've shoulders broad to bear the blame;
But we'll never stay in town and we'll never settle down,
  And we'll never have an object or an aim.

No, there's that in us that time can never tame;
And life will always seem a careless game;
  And they'd better far forget --
  Those who say they love us yet --
Forget, blot out with bitterness our name.




New Year's Eve



It's cruel cold on the water-front, silent and dark and drear;
  Only the black tide weltering, only the hissing snow;
And I, alone, like a storm-tossed wreck,
          on this night of the glad New Year,
  Shuffling along in the icy wind, ghastly and gaunt and slow.

They're playing a tune in McGuffy's saloon,
          and it's cheery and bright in there
  (God! but I'm weak -- since the bitter dawn,
            and never a bite of food);
I'll just go over and slip inside -- I mustn't give way to despair --
  Perhaps I can bum a little booze if the boys are feeling good.

They'll jeer at me, and they'll sneer at me,
          and they'll call me a whiskey soak;
  ("Have a drink?  Well, thankee kindly, sir, I don't mind if I do.")
A drivelling, dirty, gin-joint fiend, the butt of the bar-room joke;
  Sunk and sodden and hopeless -- "Another?  Well, here's to you!"

McGuffy is showing a bunch of the boys how Bob Fitzsimmons hit;
  The barman is talking of Tammany Hall,
            and why the ward boss got fired.
I'll just sneak into a corner and they'll let me alone a bit;
  The room is reeling round and round. . .
            O God! but I'm tired, I'm tired. . . .

     *    *    *    *    *

Roses she wore on her breast that night.
          Oh, but their scent was sweet!
  Alone we sat on the balcony, and the fan-palms arched above;
The witching strain of a waltz by Strauss
          came up to our cool retreat,
  And I prisoned her little hand in mine,
            and I whispered my plea of love.

Then sudden the laughter died on her lips,
          and lowly she bent her head;
  And oh, there came in the deep, dark eyes
            a look that was heaven to see;
And the moments went, and I waited there, and never a word was said,
  And she plucked from her bosom a rose of red
            and shyly gave it to me.

Then the music swelled to a crash of joy,
          and the lights blazed up like day,
  And I held her fast to my throbbing heart,
            and I kissed her bonny brow.
"She is mine, she is mine for evermore!" the violins seemed to say,
  And the bells were ringing the New Year in --
            O God! I can hear them now.

Don't you remember that long, last waltz,
          with its sobbing, sad refrain?
  Don't you remember that last good-by,
            and the dear eyes dim with tears?
Don't you remember that golden dream, with never a hint of pain,
  Of lives that would blend like an angel-song
            in the bliss of the coming years?

Oh, what have I lost!  What have I lost!  Ethel, forgive, forgive!
  The red, red rose is faded now, and it's fifty years ago.
'Twere better to die a thousand deaths than live each day as I live!
  I have sinned, I have sunk to the lowest depths --
            but oh, I have suffered so!

Hark!  Oh, hark!  I can hear the bells!. . .Look! I can see her there,
  Fair as a dream. . .but it fades. . .And now --
            I can hear the dreadful hum
Of the crowded court. . .See! the Judge looks down. . .
          NOT GUILTY, my Lord, I swear. . .
  The bells -- I can hear the bells again!. . .
            Ethel, I come, I come!. . .

     *    *    *    *    *

"Rouse up, old man, it's twelve o'clock.
          You can't sleep here, you know.
  Say! ain't you got no sentiment?  Lift up your muddled head;
Have a drink to the glad New Year, a drop before you go --
  You darned old dirty hobo. . .My God!  Here, boys!  He's DEAD!"




Comfort



Say!  You've struck a heap of trouble --
  Bust in business, lost your wife;
No one cares a cent about you,
  You don't care a cent for life;
Hard luck has of hope bereft you,
  Health is failing, wish you'd die --
Why, you've still the sunshine left you
  And the big, blue sky.

Sky so blue it makes you wonder
  If it's heaven shining through;
Earth so smiling 'way out yonder,
  Sun so bright it dazzles you;
Birds a-singing, flowers a-flinging
  All their fragrance on the breeze;
Dancing shadows, green, still meadows --
  Don't you mope, you've still got these.

These, and none can take them from you;
  These, and none can weigh their worth.
What! you're tired and broke and beaten? --
  Why, you're rich -- you've got the earth!
Yes, if you're a tramp in tatters,
  While the blue sky bends above
You've got nearly all that matters --
  You've got God, and God is love.




The Harpy



*There was a woman, and she was wise; woefully wise was she;
She was old, so old, yet her years all told
          were but a score and three;
And she knew by heart, from finish to start, the Book of Iniquity.*

There is no hope for such as I on earth, nor yet in Heaven;
Unloved I live, unloved I die, unpitied, unforgiven;
A loathed jade, I ply my trade, unhallowed and unshriven.

I paint my cheeks, for they are white, and cheeks of chalk men hate;
Mine eyes with wine I make them shine, that man may seek and sate;
With overhead a lamp of red I sit me down and wait

Until they come, the nightly scum, with drunken eyes aflame;
Your sweethearts, sons, ye scornful ones --
          'tis I who know their shame.
The gods, ye see, are brutes to me -- and so I play my game.

For life is not the thing we thought, and not the thing we plan;
And Woman in a bitter world must do the best she can --
Must yield the stroke, and bear the yoke, and serve the will of man;

Must serve his need and ever feed the flame of his desire,
Though be she loved for love alone, or be she loved for hire;
For every man since life began is tainted with the mire.

And though you know he love you so and set you on love's throne;
Yet let your eyes but mock his sighs, and let your heart be stone,
Lest you be left (as I was left) attainted and alone.

From love's close kiss to hell's abyss is one sheer flight, I trow,
And wedding ring and bridal bell are will-o'-wisps of woe,
And 'tis not wise to love too well, and this all women know.

Wherefore, the wolf-pack having gorged upon the lamb, their prey,
With siren smile and serpent guile I make the wolf-pack pay --
With velvet paws and flensing claws, a tigress roused to slay.

One who in youth sought truest truth and found a devil's lies;
A symbol of the sin of man, a human sacrifice.
Yet shall I blame on man the shame?  Could it be otherwise?

Was I not born to walk in scorn where others walk in pride?
The Maker marred, and, evil-starred, I drift upon His tide;
And He alone shall judge His own, so I His judgment bide.

*Fate has written a tragedy; its name is "The Human Heart".
The Theatre is the House of Life, Woman the mummer's part;
The Devil enters the prompter's box and the play is ready to start.*




Premonition



'Twas a year ago and the moon was bright
  (Oh, I remember so well, so well);
I walked with my love in a sea of light,
  And the voice of my sweet was a silver bell.
    And sudden the moon grew strangely dull,
      And sudden my love had taken wing;
    I looked on the face of a grinning skull,
      I strained to my heart a ghastly thing.

'Twas but fantasy, for my love lay still
  In my arms, with her tender eyes aglow,
And she wondered why my lips were chill,
  Why I was silent and kissed her so.
    A year has gone and the moon is bright,
      A gibbous moon, like a ghost of woe;
    I sit by a new-made grave to-night,
      And my heart is broken -- it's strange, you know.




The Tramps



Can you recall, dear comrade, when we tramped God's land together,
  And we sang the old, old Earth-song, for our youth was very sweet;
When we drank and fought and lusted, as we mocked at tie and tether,
  Along the road to Anywhere, the wide world at our feet --

Along the road to Anywhere, when each day had its story;
  When time was yet our vassal, and life's jest was still unstale;
When peace unfathomed filled our hearts as, bathed in amber glory,
  Along the road to Anywhere we watched the sunsets pale?

Alas! the road to Anywhere is pitfalled with disaster;
  There's hunger, want, and weariness, yet O we loved it so!
As on we tramped exultantly, and no man was our master,
  And no man guessed what dreams were ours, as, swinging heel and toe,
We tramped the road to Anywhere, the magic road to Anywhere,
  The tragic road to Anywhere, such dear, dim years ago.




L'Envoi



*You who have lived in the land,
  You who have trusted the trail,
You who are strong to withstand,
  You who are swift to assail:
      Songs have I sung to beguile,
        Vintage of desperate years,
      Hard as a harlot's smile,
        Bitter as unshed tears.

Little of joy or mirth,
  Little of ease I sing;
Sagas of men of earth
  Humanly suffering,
      Such as you all have done;
        Savagely faring forth,
      Sons of the midnight sun,
        Argonauts of the North.

Far in the land God forgot
  Glimmers the lure of your trail;
Still in your lust are you taught
  Even to win is to fail.
      Still you must follow and fight
        Under the vampire wing;
      There in the long, long night
        Hoping and vanquishing.

Husbandman of the Wild,
  Reaping a barren gain;
Scourged by desire, reconciled
  Unto disaster and pain;
      These, my songs, are for you,
        You who are seared with the brand
      God knows I have tried to be true;
        Please God you will understand.*



[End.]

A note on my novel Zombies...

Please realize before reading this novel-in-progress that it is meant to 
be a spoof of (and fond tribute to) George Romero's zombie movies Night of 
the Living Dead, Dawn of the Dead, and Day of the Dead (my personal favorite).
It is also a tribute to horror writers/filmmakers everywhere, in a light-
hearted, if extremely graphic, way.

Suzanne L. McAllister
This novel, Zombies, is  copyrighted  by  Suzanne  L.  McAllister
1989-1993.

It is being distributed through electronic  billboards  for  open
reading.

The author would like to mention that it is not finished,  and  I
would appreciate any/all comments and constructive  criticism.  I
can be reached via the following BBS's under the handle Raccoon:

The Treasure House (313) 548-7979
GIFs'R'US (313) 398-1638
Earth's Dreamlands (313) 558-5024
Collector's Corner (313) 541-7323

Or by mail:

539 Leroy
Ferndale, MI 48220












                           





                          ZOMBIES

                              

                              

                 Dedicated to George Romero

                  (filmmaker magnifique!)

                              

                              

                         CHAPTER 1

 

      Caryn looked around the store and sighed. Another long, 
  slow, boring midnight at Gas'n'More. Being a full-time 
  college student made working the graveyard shift necessary, 
  but that didn't mean she had to like it. A yawn caught her 
  by surprise and she glanced up at the Marlboro clock over 
  the wide glass doors. Twenty to three. The after-bar rush 
  had tapered off and until about five-thirty or so she 
  wouldn't see more than half a dozen people. Then would come 
  the factory workers, in for their sandwiches, donuts, 
  coffee, smokes, and gas, all of which was ready and waiting.

      She refilled her coffee cup and made another pot, then 
  took two No-Doz. She'd had so much caffeine in the last five 
  months, since starting midnights, that it barely had any 
  effect on her any more other than stopping her yawns. Going 
  behind the counter, she set her cup beside the ashtray 
  beneath it, lit a Newport, leaned back against the register, 
  and gazed out the bank of long glass windows at the big, 
  brightly-lit sign out front and gas pumps. No traffic moved 
  beyond them. Though the gas station/mini mart was located at 
  the junction of two major streets and a freeway, it was 
  surprisingly slow at night. Most of the people who came in 
  at this time were cops for their free coffee and soda. They 
  kept an eye on her, knowing that she was alone all night. 
  That wasn't really necessary, she thought. Few people 
  stopped in tiny Berkley Park off the interstate since there 
  was a rest stop two miles back.

      Actually, Caryn thought as she glanced over at the 
  thick textbook on the other side of the U-shaped counter, 
  this does work out great if only I could get more sleep, but 
  that's what I have to put up with, staying in the dorm and 
  sleeping in the afternoon after classes. I get paid to study 
  while I'm here, more or less, and I'm carrying a 4.0 grade 
  average. Two more years and I'll be home free: a high-paying 
  job at the hospital, a car and place of my own... and 
  probably a new boyfriend long before all that if Dave 
  doesn't quit his shit. But right now I need him to drive me 
  back and forth until I can afford to get a car. She felt the 
  familiar depression settle over her at the thought of him, 
  and smashed out her cigarette roughly. 

      A teenage couple came in just then, giggling and 
  holding onto each other, both wearing brown and yellow 
  jackets from the high school; the same good old Beaumont 
  High Caryn had graduated from three years ago herself. These 
  kids seemed so young and immature, she thought. Welcoming 
  the distraction from her thoughts, she not only waited on 
  them but talked with them for a few minutes about the school 
  and teachers they knew.

      When they were gone she eyeballed the thick biology 
  textbook again. But it was a Friday night and she had the 
  next two days off, so why study now? No, she decided, this 
  would be a junk night. Leaning over the counter, she grabbed 
  a copy of the National Enquirer from the rack on the other 
  side of the register and was soon absorbed in other people's 
  problems.

      
      Ryan Callahan was having a rough night. If it wasn't 
  bad enough that he'd had a fight with Mike and Anita after 
  driving all the way up here to stay with them for the 
  weekend, he'd gotten pulled over for speeding. Now, sitting 
  on his bike with the cop behind him checking his license, he 
  went to light a cigarette and discovered that his box of 
  Winstons was empty. It was a great fucking night, all right.

      The cop walked up and handed Ryan's license and 
  registration paper over. "You've got a clean record, so I'm 
  going to let you off this time. But watch the speeding- 
  there's been some bad accidents on this freeway because of 
  it."

      Ryan was surprised, and knew how easily he'd gotten 
  off. The fake insurance certificate had held up. "Thanks, 
  officer, I will."

      But as he pulled off the shoulder and back onto I-24, 
  he saw that the cop stayed right behind him. His speedometer 
  needle sat steadily at fifty-five until he saw an exit ramp 
  ahead, with the name of some town he'd never heard of over 
  it, and a brightly-lit gas station sign not far away from 
  the freeway. I'll get smokes there, and dodge this cop. He 
  headed for the sign, making a complete stop at the end of 
  the ramp instead of his usual glance-and-go, but the cop 
  still followed as he turned into the gas station. 

      Yup, a great fucking night.

      The clerk looked up from behind the counter as the door 
  signal burred and said, "Good morning." Ryan grunted and 
  walked past her to the coolers, staring in at the frozen 
  foods. 

      Asshole, Caryn thought, and decided to keep an eye on 
  him. With that long hair and torn jeans he looked 
  suspicious, and though the store had never been robbed that 
  she knew of, there was always the possibility that it could 
  happen. Relief flooded through her as she saw the white and 
  blue police car pull up outside. The door signaled again, 
  and she said, "Hi, Frank, how's your night going?"

      "Not bad. How about you?" Officer Frank Zambone and she 
  were friends after both working the graveyard shift for the 
  past few months. The other midnight cop, Mike Boujenah, was 
  more formal and aware of his duties, but if it was slow 
  Frank would stand in the store and talk to her, keeping his 
  radio on and listening for the rare call.

      "Oh, slow, as always," she said, flicking her eyes in 
  the direction of the suspicious guy, and he nodded slightly. 
  Satisfied, Caryn flipped back a couple of pages in the 
  tabloid she'd been reading and pointed out a story about 
  zombies in South America, which were reportedly heading up 
  into the United States. "Would you look at this..."

      Ryan stared in unseeingly at frozen pizzas, burritos, 
  and egg rolls, seething in silence. Why didn't that asshole 
  cop leave? He and the clerk were laughing over something, 
  but he could feel eyes boring into his back. He moved over 
  to the next glass door, barely seeing the premade sandwiches 
  there, not wanting to leave until after the cop did but 
  knowing he looked suspicious being all alone in here with 
  the girl cashier. Especially since he'd driven up here 
  straight after work at midnight in his grubby work clothes, 
  and though he was used to the prejudice anyone on a 
  motorcycle got, he didn't like it. But as it sank in what 
  he was seeing, he decided to get something to eat so he'd 
  look less suspicious and, now that he thought about it, he 
  was hungry. If that cop decided to take another good, long 
  look at his insurance certificate he might see that the date 
  had been whited out and re-typed in, and Ryan couldn't 
  afford to have his Harley impounded now, not out in the 
  middle of Nowhere, Ohio. He had a couple hundred dollars on 
  him, his entire paycheck, but most of it was for his rent 
  and not to bail himself out of jail. He grabbed a large 
  submarine sandwich and walked across the store to the soda 
  coolers, hearing the cop's radio crackle and hoping he'd 
  gotten a call and would leave.

      Caryn watched as Frank answered the call, frowning as 
  he asked the dispatcher to repeat the code. "What? At the 
  graveyard? Ten-four, I'm on my way." He turned to her. "I've 
  got to go. There's a disturbance out at Eternal Rest, 
  probably some kids goofing around, but the caretaker called 
  and said something about graves being dug up so I've got to 
  go check it out." Lowering his voice, he added with a glance 
  across the store, "Don't hesitate to push that button if he 
  starts anything, Caryn."

      "I won't. Hope it's nothing serious," she replied, but 
  felt a worm of trepidation coil in her stomach. She simply 
  didn't like the look or attitude of the man who was reaching 
  into the Pepsi cooler.

      "I'll be back as soon as I can," the cop said as he 
  hurried out to his squad car, then took off with his lights 
  flashing but the siren off.

      Ryan walked up to the counter and set down his sub, a 
  large bag of Doritos, a two-liter of Pepsi, and tossed in a 
  Snickers for good measure. The clerk, a small, slender girl 
  who almost looked ludicrous in an orange and brown smock two 
  sizes too large, smiled at him and said, "Will that be all?" 
  But the smile didn't reach her cold dark eyes, and he could 
  feel the dislike coming off her in waves. But that was okay, 
  because he didn't like her either.

      "Yeah. No, wait, gimme two packs of Winston, box if ya 
  have it, too." He pulled out his wallet and threw a ten 
  dollar bill on the counter. "That cop a friend of yours?"

      Her fingers danced over the register's keys lightly as 
  she answered, "Yeah, he works midnights too. That'll be 
  twelve-oh-seven."

      "What?!" Ryan leaned over to see the numbers on the 
  register window for himself. "For this? You gotta be 
  kidding!"

      She stiffened, angry. Every other person who came in 
  the place complained about the prices, but what did they 
  expect from a twenty-four-hour convenience store? Here was 
  another idiot she'd like to poke in the eye with a 
  screwdriver, the only kind of weapon she had in the store. 

  "Cigarettes are two bucks a pack, the soda's 
  two-twenty-nine, chip's're two-fifty-nine, candy's sixty 
  cents, and the sub's two-fifty-nine plus tax."

      Smartass bitch, Ryan thought, annoyed. She was stuffing 
  his things in a white plastic sack as he pulled his wallet 
  out again and tossed three singles by the ten, grumbling, 
  "How much d'ya charge for gas, five bucks a gallon?"

      "Dollar eighty," she said shortly, getting the 
  cigarettes from the rack over her head. She wished either 
  he'd leave or Frank would come back. He didn't like 
  customers smarting off to her and usually said something 
  when they did. 

      "D'ya have a microwave?" Ryan asked, taking the sub out 
  of the bag and breaking the plastic wrap open. "I got a long 
  ride tonight and I ain't eating this cold."

      Damn, Caryn thought, but she pointed. "Over there, 
  right next to the Frozen Coke machine."

      Later, both of them never forgot that moment, the last 
  normal time of their lives before the world irreconcilably 
  changed.

      The door burred and Caryn looked over, froze, then 
  screamed at the top of her lungs. Startled, Ryan whirled 
  around, dropping his submarine, and stared with his mouth 
  hanging open.

      A man had walked into the store, and as the door swung 
  closed on hydraulic pressure behind him, it had torn off 
  half the heel on his bare right foot. The chunk of meat slid 
  outside as the door completed its function. But the man 
  didn't react, since he had quite obviously been dead for a 
  while and didn't feel it. He was dressed in a black suit, 
  white shirt, and maroon tie that were liberally caked with 
  green slime, and his skin was a pasty greenish-white with 
  mold growing here and there. He lurched toward the counter 
  but seemed unaware of it and bumped into the magazine rack 
  that fronted the register, knocking copies of the National 
  Enquirer, Weekly World News, Star, and Globe to the floor. 
  As they fell Ryan spotted one headline that caught his eye: 
  ZOMBIES REPORTED IN SOUTH AMERICA- PIX INSIDE! South 
  America? he thought crazily. They sure migrated fast, 'cause 
  this dude is surely dead as dogshit and smells even worse. 
  Slipping on the papers, the ghoul tried for the counter 
  again and managed to bump a cigarette display aside with one 
  stiff, flailing arm. The girl had backed up as far as she 
  could go and was flattened against the Lotto machine, hands 
  over her mouth, eyes bulging like brown marbles in her face. 
  The critter was after her, Ryan realized. It wanted to eat 
  her like he was going to eat his sub, only the zombie didn't 
  have to nuke his intended meal to warm it up. And once he 
  noticed the break in the counter only a foot or so to his 
  left he would be able to get his dirt-caked green paws on 
  his prey. 

      Without thinking about it Ryan reacted. Running around 
  the outside of the counter, he swung the heavy bag in his 
  hands, the two-liter of soda catching the zombie glancingly 
  on the side of the head and knocking him down. The weight of 
  the bag made Ryan stagger, and when he turned back, the 
  critter was slowly, jerkily getting back up, one side of its 
  head looking oddly crushed but still intact, its flat 
  colorless eyes now on him. "Fuck!" he said, looking around. 
  Again without thinking, acting on sheer primal instinct 
  which said __run if you can't fight, __Ryan darted around 
  the counter and grabbed the girl by the arm. She was 
  wide-eyed and pale with shock, and felt like a moveable doll 
  under his hand. "C'mon, we gotta get out of here," he said, 
  pushing her toward the windows and urging her to climb the 
  counter. There was only one break in it, and the ghoul was 
  too close to that for them to be able to use it. He urged 
  her over then followed, twisting his ankle in the wooden 
  magazine racks that fronted the counter. He sprinted past 
  her to the doors, flung one wide, and yelled, "C'mon, you 
  goofy bitch! Isn't the smell enough for you?"

      Caryn's eyes were wide and shiny, blank now. She 
  followed him docilely out the doors and past the gas pumps, 
  under the high roofs on struts over them, and out to the 
  street. Ryan paused and looked in both directions, but the 
  long black road was dark and deserted. Across from the gas 
  station was a cheap strip mall, all the stores dark and 
  silent, while to his left was the freeway and on the right, 
  a Mexican restaurant. Nothing moved in the eerie dense 
  silence. He glanced back over his shoulder and saw the 
  zombie still bumping around inside the store, his rakish 
  Harley parked just to the right of the doors. The urge to 
  get on the bike and just go, hop on that freeway and escape 
  this madness, was strong in him yet Ryan couldn't do that. 
  His fear of the unknown was greater than what he already 
  knew as a threat. He saw little or no choice; whatever was 
  happening, it was in both their best interests to go back in 
  that store, get rid of the ghoul, and stay put until the 
  cops came back or something else happened.

      He grabbed the cashier by the arm again and turned her 
  around, not seeing the slack, blank look of shock on her 
  face. As they walked back across the parking lot he 
  explained what they had to do, looking around to make sure 
  more of the rotting fuckers weren't coming at them. As he 
  pushed the doors open and shoved her in before him, Ryan 
  grimaced at the stench that filled the store, as if hundreds 
  of pounds of hamburger had gone rancid. The zombie was on 
  the other side of the counter, near the Frozen Coke and 
  fountain soda machine, and turned its head to look creakily 
  at them as they again climbed behind the counter to relative 
  safety.

       Nothing to use as a weapon in sight. Ryan looked 
  around behind the counter, glancing at the girl, but she 
  looked frozen in shock and didn't move. The zombie, which 
  obviously wasn't running on all cylinders, managed to wander 
  back their way and bumped straight into the counter again, 
  this time knocking the cigarette display off, grunting in a 
  flat, desperate tone. "Do you have a knife? Gun? Anything I 
  can use to stop that fucker?" Ryan said desperately, 
  wondering if the thing would ever figure out how to get 
  behind the counter. But even if it didn't it had to go, 
  because the putrid, gassy smell was about to make him puke. 
  "Bitch, wake up and help me!" he yelled, going over to shake 
  her. "Come on, think! That thing sees us as chow and we're 
  gonna be its chow if we don't kill it- for good!"

      The zombie bumped the counter again ineffectively, then 
  looked down and saw what was stopping it. Gears seemed to 
  grind in its rotting brain and it raised one knee, trying to 
  climb over it. 

      Caryn was thinking of how she often thought of poking 
  people in the eye with a screwdriver--usually customers who 
  gave her a hard time, like this idiot--since that was the 
  only weapon of any kind in the store. You had to stop their 
  brains to kill them, she thought dazedly, and managed to 
  say, "There's screwdrivers hanging over the sink in the back 
  room."

      "C'mon, show me," Ryan turned and vaulted the counter 
  beside the Lotto machine, then tugged at her shoulder. 
  "Climb over, that'll confuse old deadbrain there long enough 
  for us to get them."

      Feeling like she was trapped in someone else's body 
  who'd had a massive Novicane shot, Caryn did as he said and 
  led him into the back room. Over a stainless steel double 
  sink was a rack of screwdrivers ranging from tiny to huge, 
  and with an exclamation of triumph Ryan grabbed a 
  two-foot-long Phillips. "This'll do. You stay back here and 
  lock the door behind me in case it gets me instead of me 
  gettin' it."

      "That door doesn't lock," Caryn said woodenly. 

      "Then come on! What, you take a 'lude? Wake up, bitch! 
  Deal with it! Here, take this. We gotta kill that fucker and 
  lock them doors before more come." Ryan thrust a slightly 
  smaller straight-slot into her slack hand, which closed over 
  the screwdriver mechanically, and went to the doorway to the 
  store proper. "Shit. He's corralled now. How we gonna get 
  'im?"

      Caryn peered around him hesitantly. The zombie was 
  wandering around behind the counter, bumping into it, 
  apparently having forgotten how it'd gotten in there in the 
  first place. Its blindly waving hands knocked over a rack of 
  greeting cards, then bumped the lottery machine and a ticket 
  popped out. "That one's probably a winner," Ryan muttered, 
  and shook his head. "Well, what d'ya think?"

      The thought of more things like that invading the 
  store, trapping them, galvanized Caryn to action, though she 
  didn't think there were more, that this was an isolated 
  incident. "Guess I'll be bait," she said slowly. "You can 
  creep up behind it. How's that?"

      The smile he turned on her surprised Caryn. When he 
  wasn't frowning, this was one handsome guy. "Thatta girl. 
  Let's do it before I pass out from the smell."

      "No kidding," she agreed, then took a deep breath and a 
  better grip on the screwdriver, and walked out into the 
  store. "Hey... you," she said hesitantly, cringing when the 
  zombie looked over at her and drooled. "C'mon, thing, you 
  want me, come and get it." She sidled over to the break in 
  the counter, glancing behind her to make sure she had plenty 
  of escape room. The front door was only a few feet away and 
  she decided to break for that. The idiot biker might think 
  there were more, but Caryn doubted it. One zombie was enough 
  to stretch her brain to the breaking point and there was no 
  way she was going to consider that there might be more 
  outside.

      Ryan stayed in the doorway until the thing was out from 
  behind the counter, reaching for the girl who was backing 
  away at the same rate it came at her. He'd revised his 
  opinion of the clerk, seeing that she was showing some balls 
  now. When the critter was about two feet in the clear he 
  moved, running up behind it and driving the long metal 
  screwdriver into the back of its head.

      The zombie's skull simply fell apart, grayish-green 
  mush splattering in all directions as the body lost all 
  animation and fell down decently--and fully--dead. Both of 
  them backed away, Ryan grossed out over the putrid shit that 
  had splashed on him, Caryn turning away and retching, but 
  she didn't vomit. "Get... rid of that before I puke," she 
  said chokingly, and ran into the back room.

      Ryan shrugged. So much for her balls, but they'd been 
  there when it mattered. He grabbed one of the zombie's arms 
  and pulled, but it came off. "Fuck! I dunno if I can. The 
  thing's falling apart like a jigsaw puzzle." But he finally 
  thought to grab the shoulders of its suit jacket and managed 
  to drag it out the front doors, then paused and looked 
  around the silent area. No one or nothing moved, not even a 
  car. Maybe I should just go, blow this place. But who knows 
  what's going on everywhere else--it could be worse--and if I 
  gotta be trapped somewhere during a zombie epidemic, at 
  least this place's warm and full of food and beer. Could be 
  worse is right.

      He closed the double glass doors and twisted the knob, 
  making sure they were locked by jiggling them. "Okay, it's 
  gone," he called, and she walked out of the back room with 
  her face white as a sheet. 

      "Now what do we do?"

      "You think I know? It's probably best if we just sit 
  tight and wait and see what's goin' on. Do you have a 
  radio?"

      She nodded and went behind the counter, kicking aside 
  greeting cards and packs of cigarettes, and pulled a small 
  black and silver jambox from beneath the counter. "It's not 
  police band, but there should be something about what's 
  going on," she said as she set it on the counter and plugged 
  it in.

      But only regular music and talking greeted her sweep 
  across both AM and FM dials, nothing unusual, but she left 
  it on an easy listening station she sometimes listened to, 
  low. "Shit, I wonder what's going on. Frank got a call to go 
  to the graveyard just before he left."

      "Frank? Oh, you mean the cop. I dunno. Hey, can you 
  turn off the sign?" Ryan turned and pointed out the glass 
  windows. "That might be why that thing came here. It sure 
  couldn't smell us in here."

      "Yeah, all right," she agreed, going into the back 
  room. Moments later the big lit sign out by the street went 
  dark, then the lights over the gas pumps, and finally the 
  pumps themselves. "I can't turn out the lights in here or 
  the coolers go, they're all on the same switch. I know 
  'cause we had a power outage before and everything went."

      "Hmmn. I see what you're sayin'. We're like a big sign 
  sayin' SMORGASBORD HERE to them critters when they see the 
  store lit up, even if the sign's off." 

      "What do you mean, "them critters"? How can you 
  logically think there's more of them out there? And I don't 
  even think that was a zombie, maybe some kind of sick joke. 
  Just because we saw one, whatever it was, doesn't mean 
  there's more."

      Ryan was getting annoyed. "Jesus, what're you, a 
  Vulcan? I never heard such cold logic in my life from 
  somebody who was so terrified they couldn't move ten minutes 
  ago."

      "Like you said, I've got to deal with it," Caryn 
  snapped back. "And no, I'm not a Vulcan, I'm a college 
  student."

      "Oh god help me, an intellectual," Ryan sighed, and 
  turned away. "Another know-it-all."

      "Screw you, buddy!" Caryn snapped. "You don't like it 
  here, leave. I sure don't want you here."

      "My name's Ryan, Ryan Callahan," he said, disliking 
  being called "buddy". 

      "I'm Caryn Jackson," she said, her anger draining out. 
  "Okay, so what now? We wait until something happens?"

      "Yeah, I guess so, unless you'd like to take your 
  chances in zombieland," he shrugged. "I'm happy here."

      "God, do you have to be such a smartass?" she frowned, 
  going to refill her coffee cup. "I wish you would leave, 
  'cause I'm already sick of you."

      "Same here."

      Though Caryn didn't want him in the store, she had no 
  way to make him leave and hoped that Frank would come back 
  by and make him go. She carried her cup of coffee behind the 
  counter and as she set it down, her eyes fell on the 
  telephone and widened. "The phone! Damn! Why didn't I think 
  of it sooner!"

      Ryan had picked up his bag, took out a pack of Winstons 
  and his bottle of soda, and was sitting up on the counter 
  near the lottery machine, smoking and tapping his ashes on 
  the floor. He took a drink from the large bottle, wiped his 
  mouth with the back of his hand, belched, and said, "Waddia 
  gonna do, call the cops and tell 'em we killed a dead guy? 
  They'd sure believe that."

      Hearing a normal dial tone in her ear, Caryn punched in 
  the numbers for the dorm. "First I'm calling home, to see if 
  anyone's up. Shit. It's busy. Probably Marsha talking to 
  Jeff for half the night again." She pressed the cutoff 
  button, then glanced over at him. "As a matter of fact, 
  that's a good idea. The cops might-"

      Ryan was torn by indecision. On one hand he didn't want 
  her to call them, because if they came out again they might 
  just check his insurance certificate and that'd be the end 
  of his Harley. On the other hand, a gun and authority might 
  come in handy if more of those things were wandering around 
  out there, which to him there were. As far as Maeve 
  Callahan's third son Ryan was concerned, if there was one, 
  there was more. 


      Caryn dialed the police station, getting a busy signal, 
  and tried again. The other end rang, then a tired voice 
  said, "Berkely Park Police, Sergeant Boujeneh speaking."

      "Mike? This is Caryn down at the gas station. Has 
  anything... unusual... been happening?" "This had better be 
  important, Caryn. I've been getting a lot of prank calls 
  tonight, I can't contact Frank, and I'm not in the mood for 
  any shit."

      Her heart began to pound, the receiver trembling in her 
  hand as it shook. "About zombies? It's not a prank, Mike, we 
  saw-"

      "Is Frank there with you?" he snapped angrily.

      "No, a customer is staying here because-"

      "That's enough, I'm too busy for this shit." He hung up 
  and Caryn stared at the phone in disbelief. "He hung up on 
  me! He didn't believe me! He said he's been getting prank 
  calls about zombies!"

      "Then there must be more," Ryan said, frowning. "Caryn, 
  maybe we should get on my-"

      The sound of squealing tires, clear in the silence, 
  made both of them turn toward the windows. Headlights were 
  turning into the gas station's dark parking lot, wavering 
  and bumping as the car jumped two of the parking blocks, and 
  suddenly accelerated across the blacktop toward the 
  building. It barely missed a set of gas pumps, and Ryan 
  yelled in horror as he saw it heading straight for his 
  Harley. But he didn't have time to even move as it crashed 
  into his bike and then hit the building, smashing the large 
  motorcycle between it and the bricks. The store shook and 
  bottles clinked in the cooler, several items falling off the 
  shelves, as he sprinted for the door. Forgetting he'd locked 
  them, Ryan shook the doors, lost in fury and screaming 
  threats at the unseen driver. Just as he unlocked the doors, 
  the car's driver's door opened and someone dressed in dark 
  clothing fell out onto the blacktop. Caryn, who was behind 
  Ryan, saw who it was and screamed, "Frank! Oh, no, Frank!"

      Still furious about his bike but suddenly remembering 
  the danger they were in, Ryan calmed himself with a 
  stupendous effort and relocked the doors. Staring out, he 
  watched as the cop dragged himself up off the ground and 
  staggered toward them. Ole Frank the cop had had a run-in 
  with a zombie, maybe more than one, it looked like. Blood 
  covered his dark blue uniform, turning it black. Big chunks 
  of flesh were missing from his neck and arms, his shirt torn 
  and hanging in shreds to show raw flesh beneath. He 
  staggered toward the doors and collapsed again only a foot 
  away, then lifted the top half of his body and stretched one 
  arm toward them. Through the glass they could barely hear 
  his voice: "Help... me... came to warn you, Caryn... 
  things.... zombies..." It trailed off and he fell face-first 
  onto the pavement, and didn't move again.

      Ryan suddenly staggered sideways from a shove and fell 
  against a stack of soda crates, the bottles clinking. Caryn, 
  still screaming, was fumbling with the door lock. "We've got 
  to help him!"

      He pushed her away from the doors with less force than 
  she'd used on him and held the handles securely as he turned 
  to face her. "What, are you nuts? He's dead, and now he's 
  gonna turn into one of those things. Looks like he went a 
  coupla rounds with a zombie George Foreman. Don't you watch 
  movies? Once you're bit by those things and die you turn 
  into one of 'em."

      She bit her lip, crossing her arms over her chest and, 
  shuddering, looked over his shoulder outside. Then she 
  froze, unable to speak. Ryan turned his back to the doors 
  and took a couple steps away, frowning, thinking about his 
  bike and wondering if the cop at the station would believe 
  them now.

      Caryn was staring at a shambling group of zombies 
  crossing Pressburg Road toward the gas station, five or six, 
  only their forms distinguishable in the dark. But there was 
  no doubt that they were zombies; just the way they stumbled 
  and lurched gave that away. She would've known something was 
  wrong just by the way they were walking, if it could be 
  called that. And they were arrowing straight for the store's 
  lights at a snail's pace, but it was fast enough for her.

      "Ruh... ruh..." she forced out, and managed to point, 
  her mind back to being on Novocaine.

      He looked up, annoyed, then noticed the pallor of her 
  face. "Caryn? What's..." he turned and saw them right away. 
  "Oh fucking shit. Critter patrol. How thick are those 
  doors?"

      "Not thick enough," she managed to say, holding onto 
  herself with a dint of will, wanting only to run out the 
  back door and never stop running. "Kid broke one of them 
  with a skateboard last month."

      "We've got to block them off, then," Ryan said. The 
  zombies were just crossing the sidewalk and the lead one was 
  stumbling over a concrete parking block into the lot. "We 
  might have enough time. What can we use?"

      "I don't know." Caryn's eyes swept over the front of 
  the store and she shrugged.

      "Soda crates!" Ryan pointed to the displays of Coke, 
  Pepsi, 7-Up, and Faygo stacked up against the front windows 
  to the left of the doors, which he'd fallen against when 
  she'd shoved him away from the doors. It looked like there'd 
  been a recent delivery, since the crates--each containing 
  three eight-packs of bottles--were stacked eight and ten 
  high. "C'mon, help me. Even if they break the windows it'll 
  take 'em a while to get past these."

      As she went to help, Caryn's eyes were on the five 
  zombies--skipping over Frank's motionless body--which had 
  reached the gas pumps about ten feet from the front of the 
  building. None of them seemed to be connected to reality, as 
  two were repeatedly bumping against the gas pumps, 
  apparently unaware that all they had to do was step around 
  them, while another had fallen over one of the concrete 
  parking blocks and was still trying to walk face-down on the 
  ground. One woman, who was missing her jawbone and had a 
  dark, gaping hole below her exposed front teeth, lurched 
  steadily toward the lit store with determination, unaware 
  that half her coffin was still attached to one of her legs 
  and being dragged along behind her. The fifth zombie was 
  lurching along in the lead, but stumbling, slowed by a 
  missing foot.

      They stacked the soda crates in front of the doors, 
  leaving most where they were to protect the windows though 
  they were much thicker than the door glass, and built a wall 
  about five and a half feet high. Ryan's arms ached and his 
  back was sore when they got done, but both felt much safer 
  with the crates blocking the doors. As they rested, leaning 
  against the crates, something bumped in the night.

      Caryn peered between the bottles, being much shorter 
  than the wall. "Here they come."

      Ryan looked over the top, being six-one. One of the 
  critters was still bumping against a pump, but the other 
  four had achieved their goal and were fumbling around with 
  the door handles, stumbling over the cop's body and ignoring 
  it. They'd stacked the crates tightly against the doors, 
  which opened inward, and since they were locked, they didn't 
  bump against the crates, so unless the glass was broken 
  there was no danger of them being knocked over. The zombies 
  scratched and bumped uselessly against the glass, one of 
  them having the intelligence to try and pull on the doors, 
  but when that didn't work, it went back to beating its hands 
  uselessly on the glass.

      "I think it'll hold," Caryn said with relief. "I don't 
  think they're strong enough to break it."

      "Yeah, and the way the one I dragged outside fell apart 
  I bet they'd come apart before they were able to break the 
  glass," Ryan agreed, grimacing at the memory and glad that 
  he'd put the first zombie's body--and parts--on the side of 
  the store.

      "Ugh, don't remind me," Caryn shuddered, moving away 
  from the barricade. "Now I guess we wait."

      Ryan's stomach growled as he leaned against the crates, 
  his back to the thumping zombies. "I'm going to get 
  something to eat. Where'd my sub go?"

      "That thing stepped on it, so I threw it away. Get 
  another since you did pay for it," she said, going behind 
  the counter, but her eyes kept straying to the 
  partially-seen forms beyond the glass. "I don't think I 
  could eat right now."

       "They're gross, but I'm still hungry and I don't plan 
  to starve to death in a store full of food," Ryan said, 
  going to the sandwich cooler and taking out a roast beef sub 
  that cost a dollar more than the bologna and salami one he'd 
  paid for. 

      Caryn watched unobtrusively as he heated up the 
  submarine and hopped back up on the counter to eat. He'd 
  also gotten a large bag of red-hot chips and another, cold, 
  bottle of Pepsi from the rack without paying, and she 
  decided to keep track of what he ate and charge him for it 
  later. There was bound to be rescue, and things would go 
  back to normal, so he wasn't going to eat all night for 
  free. She tried to turn her attention to a magazine, but it 
  was dry and boring and the zombies still bumping against the 
  doors and windows outside kept distracting her. A tabloid 
  might have kept her interest better than Newsweek, but she'd 
  read all of them already.

      "Caryn, have you thought of what we'll do if no one 
  comes by morning? Obviously the cop you talked to doesn't 
  believe us." Ryan said, wiping his mouth on a piece of paper 
  towel and tossing his empty wrapper in the trash. "I mean, 
  who knows how many of these things are on the loose, or how 
  widespread it is. It can't be happening just around here."

      "I had to do research on American burial traditions for 
  my Cultures class last year, and in case you don't know, we 
  bury people in two caskets. There's the one you see at a 
  funeral, and it's lowered into a cement box that has a heavy 
  lid. That's law, Ryan, and everyone who isn't cremated or 
  put in a crypt is done like that. So don't think that the 
  graveyard's empty, because most of them probably can't get 
  past the cement lid on the second casket."

      "How'd you find all that out?" Ryan asked curiously, 
  still eating hot chips.

      "Went over to the graveyard and asked the caretaker. He 
  even gave me a tour of the place and answered all my 
  questions. I got an A+ on that term paper, too." Caryn went 
  and poured herself another cup of coffee. When she came 
  back, she added, "Even the ones in the crypts can't get out. 
  The doors are locked against vandalism, especially around 
  this time of the year. Halloween's in two weeks."

      "Yeah, no shit. Now that you mention it..."

      "Get real. What's Halloween got to do with this shit 
  going on?"

      "Just think how this looks in some European countries 
  where they're still real superstitious. They must-"

      Angrily Caryn interrupted, "For all we know it's a 
  local thing. I can't believe the whole world is being 
  invaded by killer zombies."

      "I can, 'cause it's better than believing in false 
  hopes," he snapped back. "I never think things are going to 
  be good 'cause when they aren't, you just got kicked in the 
  face again. Look at my fucking bike out there! I just got it 
  fixed!"

      Caryn stared at him momentarily. "Jesus, are you ever a 
  pessimist. You have control over things that happen to you, 
  you know. If you don't put yourself in a position to get-"

      Now he interrupted her. "Oh yeah? How'd I have control 
  over the fact that my mother abandoned me and my brothers 
  when I was five and I was raised in an orphanage? That was a 
  great start, Caryn, believe me, and it hasn't gotten any 
  better no matter how hard I've worked at it. So don't spout 
  that bullshit about control to me," he finished angrily, 
  half-shouting.

      She recoiled and felt tears well up. "I-I'm sorry," she 
  said, frowning, trying to stop herself from crying. She'd 
  never been able to take a man's angry voice, not after her 
  father. It had seemed that he was always yelling at one or 
  the other of them. But she lost the fight and before she 
  could wipe it away, a single tear coursed from the corner of 
  her eye and down her cheek. She ran into the back room, 
  where there was a small bathroom, and locked herself in. 
  Why'd I have to get locked in here with an uneducated, 
  bullheaded biker? Jesus, why not Frank or Jim or even Dave?

      Ryan watched her go with amazement replacing his anger. 
  The goofy bitch had been __crying. __Over a stupid argument? 
  Of all the people on Earth he could have gotten stuck with 
  during an unexpected emergency like this, why her? Sure 
  there were worse people--the soon-to-be-a-zombie cop 
  would've been--but she wasn't his dream girl, that was for 
  sure. Well, at least she wasn't bad to look at. That was 
  something. She could have looked like the fat and 
  pimple-dotted clerk who worked midnights at the 7-Eleven 
  near his house, but at least that woman was an interesting 
  conversationalist and didn't treat him like shit because he 
  had long hair and rode a bike. Or, even better, he could 
  have been home in his comfortable little house... but then 
  it had a lot of windows that he would have had to board up, 
  and he might have ended up like most people in zombie movies 
  he'd seen: ghoul fodder. 

      Caryn came out of the back room with her face blotchy 
  and eyes red and wouldn't look at him, instead heading back 
  to the long wall-length walk-in cooler and disappearing 
  inside. A moment later he heard the blowers stop and the 
  lights inside went on. He caught glimpses of her in there 
  between the rows of shelves and realized with some amazement 
  that she was filling the cooler. In his mind she went beyond 
  goofy to being an asshole; why work when you didn't have to? 
  Even if her bosses survived the zombie epidemic, would they 
  care if her work wasn't done? Why did she care?

      Caryn was filling the cooler to have something to do, 
  to keep her hands and mind busy, and to get away from Ryan. 
  God, how she hated that opinionated, uneducated, pessimistic 
  son of a bitch! Uneasily she wondered how long they'd be 
  stuck in here together; much longer than morning, which was 
  only a few hours away, and they would be on the verge of 
  killing each other. Then, with such a shock that she almost 
  dropped the six-pack of beer she was about to put up on a 
  shelf, Caryn realized that no matter what happened from now 
  on, __everything __she knew was irreconcilably changed. Even 
  if this was a put-on or a joke or something not real, which 
  she was too much of a realist to know better than, the past 
  couple of hours had changed her. If someone had walked up to 
  her and asked how she'd react in an emergency like this, she 
  would have said that she'd be calm, cool, collected, and 
  efficient; that how nurses acted and wasn't she training to 
  be a nurse? But now she knew different. She had freaked out 
  and frozen, completely lost control of herself. She didn't 
  see that that didn't matter; she had come through when it 
  was needed. Caryn only saw that she had clutched up under 
  pressure.

      She unthinkingly shoved the six-pack of Bud Dry onto 
  the shelf and moved over to the next, pushing the single 
  bottles of beer and wine coolers forward and filling the 
  racks from boxes behind her, still lost in thought. 

      Ryan, meanwhile, was staring over the wall of soda 
  crates at the dark night, past the zombies still worrying 
  the doors, to the bulk of the police car and, though he 
  couldn't see it, his bike crushed between it and the wall of 
  the store. He had put so much work, energy, and money into 
  that machine that he couldn't quite believe that it was 
  gone, but intellectually he knew it was. Not even the 
  handlebars could have survived that collision. His treasured 
  Ultraglide was scrap metal. 

      This was not the place he wanted to be during what was, 
  apparently, a zombie epidemic or whatever you wanted to call 
  it. Though only the front wall was glass, and the windows 
  three inches thick and pretty much unbreakable by the stupid 
  critters, it was hard to defend. And if three or four had 
  found them, then there was probably more on the way. They 
  had to get out of here, but how?

      Caryn jumped, startled, when Ryan stuck his head in the 
  cooler and said, "Where's your car parked? I can't see it 
  out there."

      She sighed and stretched, easing her sore back. "I 
  don't have one. My boyfriend's been driving me back and 
  forth to work, and I live on campus."

      "Oh, that's just fucking great. How are we gonna get 
  out of here?" Ryan leaned against the cooler's metal 
  doorframe, cool but not cold since she'd had the blowers off 
  for at least half an hour.

      "Leave? But why? The cops know we're here, and we've 
  got food, heat, and shelter."

      "But it's not safe. Look out front. There's five 
  zombies out there now, plus your cop friend when he 
  reanimates, and there's bound to be more. If they came here, 
  for whatever reason, there's gonna be more. And if they 
  break that glass we're fucked."

      She walked down the long, narrow isle toward him and 
  Ryan backed out of the cooler. "I don't think they can break 
  the glass. Besides, there's a back door, and nothing out 
  back but dumpsters. We've got plenty of room to run. I 
  think-"

      "And we're still fucked, but fucked on foot. Those 
  things are pretty damn stupid, it looks like, but I don't 
  think it would take us long to get tired and be ambushed or 
  something after running for a couple of hours." Ryan said 
  over his shoulder as he walked toward the counter, Caryn 
  following after closing the cooler door and restarting the 
  blowers without thinking about it.

      "Well, then, you are more than welcome to leave, front 
  door or back," Caryn snapped, annoyed at being interrupted. 
  "I never wanted you to stay here in the first place."

      Ryan barely heard her. He was standing at the bottle 
  crate barricade again, staring past the zombies at the 
  police car. A faint plume of exhaust was barely visible 
  behind it, and that gave him an idea, whether she wanted to 
  come along or not.

      "Are you ready?"

      Caryn took a deep breath and shifted her heavy backpack 
  slightly. Though it usually held her textbooks, it now 
  contained items that just might insure her and Ryan's 
  survival out in zombieland. "No, but I guess I'll have to 
  be."

      "Just remember- if anything happens to me, go straight 
  to the police station. If that's been... infiltrated... 
  well, then, good luck." Ryan stood posed and ready by the 
  back door, which was unlocked, his hands on the long metal 
  bar. 

      "Infiltrated? Where'd you learn a big word like that?" 
  Caryn cracked nervously.

      Ryan grinned back at her. "At the movies. C'mon, let's 
  do it."

      Before she was ready, he hit the door's bar and was 
  out, running. Alarms sounded as the security system was 
  breached and Caryn flinched as she followed. The heavy steel 
  door grazed her foot as it began to close behind him and she 
  stumbled, but recovered quickly and followed Ryan's running 
  form around the side of the store, the alarms silencing as 
  the door shut behind them. Just as she caught up to him, 
  Pressburg Road in sight, he stopped dead and she plowed into 
  his back, knocking him over and falling on top of him in a 
  sprawling tangle of arms and legs. If they hadn't still been 
  on the side of the building that would have been the end of 
  them, but the zombies around front couldn't see them yet. 

  "You asshole!" he hissed in a loud whisper.

      "Well, you-"

      He twisted around and clapped a hand over her mouth, 
  holding the back of her head with the other. They were 
  laying on their sides with legs still entangled, facing each 
  other, on the cold hard blacktop. "Sssh! Look toward the 
  road!"

      Caryn would have bitten his hand if she could have, but 
  he had it cupped over her lips. Instead she did as he said, 
  craning her neck as his hands loosened... and gasped, but 
  didn't scream like she wanted to. In the glow of a 
  streetlight near the freeway overpass were zombies, what 
  looked like an entire shambling army, coming out from 
  beneath the bridge and heading their way. From the graveyard 
  on the other side of the freeway, Caryn realized. They were 
  less than half a mile away, and coming along slowly... but 
  steadily. They could be outrun, but for how long? 

      Ryan slowly removed his hands from the back of her 
  neck, and mouth, somehow regretting leaving the feel of her 
  long, soft, silky hair. Her body, pressed against his from 
  chest to foot, was firm yet springy in places... one place, 
  in particular. But he forced himself to ignore the feel of 
  her breasts against his chest as he whispered, "We have got 
  to get out of here, especially now, but be quiet until we're 
  both in position. I don't know if they can smell us, but 
  we're going to have to take the chance. We'll go ahead with 
  the plan... you ready?"

      "As I'll ever be," Caryn whispered back, squirming away 
  from him and getting up, unbalanced by her heavy backpack. 
  Her body tingled from the feel of his, hard and muscular, 
  unlike her boyfriend's, which was soft and paunchy. Ryan got 
  up too, absently brushing at the ripped-out knees of his 
  jeans, and glanced at her. Caryn nodded and ran out in front 
  of the store and across the lot, reaching the parking blocks 
  at the end before she stopped. The zombies gathered around 
  the doors had just seen her and were turning around slowly, 
  creakily. She glanced around quickly, saw that the road was 
  clear to the west though eastward came the zombie army from 
  the graveyard, and called, "C'mon, you stinking things! You 
  want me, come and get me! Dinnertime if you can catch me!"

      Ryan watched from the side of the building. His opinion 
  of Caryn Jackson was changing fast. Now that she'd 
  apparently recovered from the shock of the situation she was 
  not only dealing with it, but dealing with it well. Brave 
  girl, he thought, watching from hiding as the critters 
  turned and started for her. Instead of turning and running 
  like he was sure she wanted to (God knew he did), Caryn held 
  her ground, glancing back and forth between the two groups 
  of shambling walking dead. She was so unusual, he thought. 
  Terrified to the point of catatonia one minute, then in 
  charge and taking action. She'd argue with him fiercely, or 
  just back down and get upset. There was no telling what 
  she'd do next, and if they got out of this Ryan was 
  seriously considering asking her out. The fact that she was 
  very pretty helped this decision.

      As his thoughts had run on, the zombies had shuffled 
  past the police car and were now passing the first set of 
  gas pumps in a loose group, one of them walking into a pump 
  but this time figuring out how to get around it after a 
  moment of creaky thought. They were less than fifteen feet 
  from Caryn, who looked ready to vomit or bolt, maybe both, 
  as the wind shifted to blow in her face. It was time for 
  Ryan to make his move. He braced himself, then darted around 
  the side of the building toward the police car, circled it, 
  and reached for the open door. But as his hand closed over 
  the top of it, another hand--cold and clammy even through 
  his white sweat socks--closed around his ankle and he looked 
  down to see the cop's open mouth about to close over his 
  calf, jeans or no jeans.

      Frank had finally reanimated.

      Ryan jerked his leg away but the hand didn't let go, 
  and Frank's teeth clicked together with an audible snap only 
  inches from his inteneded place. Lifting his other leg, Ryan 
  kicked the cop directly in the face and his head snapped 
  back, nose smashing flat, but his head didn't explode into a 
  pile of grey stinking mush like he'd thought it might. The 
  cop was a lot fresher than the first zombie had been, and 
  would take a lot more abuse before being felled, Ryan 
  realized with a shudder of terror. He stomped on the cop's 
  wrist as his head snaked back to try for another bite and 
  the hand let go, Ryan dancing out of his reach without 
  thinking; unfortunately, he also moved out of the reach of 
  the idling police car. 

      "Ryan, hurry up, they're getting close- both ways!" 
  Caryn called in desperation. "What's wrong?"

      He turned and looked at her, then back at Frank, who 
  was jerkily getting up on his unsteady legs. "Your fucking 
  cop friend is after me! I can't get into the car!"

      As Ryan backed up again, Caryn saw Frank rise up from 
  the ground on the other side of the police car from her line 
  of vision and totter forward like a baby just learning to 
  walk, his legs shaky and rubbery as rigor mortis hadn't yet 
  set in. The sight of him tore into her soul. "Get in the 
  other side!" she yelled, backing up as the lead zombie from 
  the group that had been in front of the store reached the 
  parking blocks about six feet from her. "Hurry it up, I'm 
  running out of room here!"

      Ryan hurried around the car and yanked open the front 
  passenger door, then crawled inside and started cursing. A 
  computer terminal took up much of the room in the front 
  seat, and he had to squirm around it before he could plop 
  into the driver's seat. Then he looked up to see Frank's 
  vacantly grinning face coming at him from the open 
  door--he'd erroneously assumed that Frank would try to 
  follow him around the car, but he hadn't--and he screamed as 
  he realized that he was trapped, thinking he was dead, 
  zombie fodder, and possibly soon to be one of the 
  flesh-eating critters himself. 

      Then Frank crumpled like a deflated balloon and he 
  looked up to see Caryn beyond, her hands flying to her mouth 
  and beginning to cry. Looking down, he saw the handle of a 
  long screwdriver protuding from the back of the cop's head. 
  Thank God she'd remembered it was stuck in her belt, since 
  he'd forgotten about his own. "Hurry up and get in," he 
  said. "They're following you."

      She stumbled around the police car, hearing the 
  driver's door slam shut, and fell into the passenger seat, 
  quickly closing her door though she had to fumble to feel 
  for the handle through tear-blurred eyes. Shock was again 
  taking her to its twilight region, her brain overloaded by 
  the horrors of the night. She sat and cried silently, tears 
  streaming down her face and not noticing the lumpy backpack 
  behind her as Ryan wheeled the police car out of the lot, 
  leaving the zombies and the brightly lit store behind. 

      Ryan floored the car down the long dark road toward the 
  brightly-lit town, vaguely noticing that the sky was
  lightening to his right. It was false dawn, but it meant
  that daylight would come and that thought buoyed his
  spirits, as did their escape from the store. As they swept
  around a tree-lined blind curve and the town sprawled before
  them, he slammed on the brakes as hard as he could and the
  police car slewed sideways, shuddering to a stop with its
  already-crushed reinforced bumper only inches away from the
  two cars smashed together in the middle of the road. "Jesus
  God, what happened here?" he exclaimed, his hands damp with
  persperation on the wheel he clutched tight enough to turn
  his knuckles white.

      Even through her shock Caryn could get an idea of what 
   had happened. There were no bodies, but in the glow of a
   nearby streetlight the blood everywhere was quite
   noticeable. It was splashed both inside and outside the two
   cars, and on the ground around them. One of the cars, a
   black late-model Ford Escort, had the driver's door standing
   open and in the gleam of its dome light they saw a single
   severed arm sitting on the bloody seat, an indistinguishable
   tattoo on its wrist. Most likely these two cars had
   approached from opposite ends of the road coming around the
   blind curve and maybe there'd been a zombie standing in the
   middle of the road or several off to the side, just enough
   to distract the drivers so that they collided. And,
   unfortunately, must have gotten out of their cars.

      After staring for a minute, Ryan shifted the car into 
   reverse and backed up to a nearby driveway, which led into
   the empty parking lot of one of the many strip malls that
   lined the road into town. He drove through the lot,
   bypassing the accident, and once back on the road beyond it,
   floored the gas again. The brakes now felt rather spongy and
   a small red light had come on over the gas gauge, but there
   was no time to worry about that now.

      Neither spoke as they raced down the dark, silent road, 
   the police radio occasionally crackling, but only static
   came through it. Then they swept around a long turn and were
   in the town of Berkley Park proper and as soon as they
   sighted the long main street, Ryan slammed on the brakes
   again, throwing Caryn into the dash but barely noticing or
   that he bounced off the steering wheel himself.

      It was a scene out of the worst nightmare, brightly lit 
   by streetlights and their headlights. Zombies shambled here
   and there, some with an obvious purpose in mind (such as the
   one determinedly attacking the front of the 24-hour
   laundrymat while they could hear desparite screams from
   inside) while others simply wandered around blankly,
   apparently having no idea what they were doing. Several were
   gathered around a car in the middle of the street ahead of
   them and in the glare of the police car's bright headlights,
   both Ryan and Caryn could quite clearly see that the zombies
   were hanging inside the car through the open windows and
   chowing happily on whoever had been driving. They were now
   zombie fodder, several of the critters leaning in the
   windows and squabbling weakly over the priveledge of getting
   the freshest food.

      Ryan rolled up his window, glancing over to see that 
   the passenger side was already up. Caryn was staring out at
   the carnage with her mouth hanging open, blood trickling
   from one nostril, but obviously she didn't notice she'd been
   hurt. "Hey, wipe your nose, it's bleeding," Ryan said, his
   voice sounding shaky even to himself. "You think there'd be
   anywhere safe?"

      "I... I don't know," Caryn said, absently swiping at 
   her nose with her arm and grimacing as she touched the
   bruised member. "All the people are sleeping... sleeping and
   not knowing... Jesus, we have to go to my house! And the
   dorm!"

      "Okay, we can do that," Ryan agreed, half for her peace 
   of mind and half to get the gruesome scene before them out
   of his face. He let up on the brake and the red light on the
   dash went out momentarily, then reappeared, glowing like a
   mad dog's eye in the darkness. "Which way?"

      "Go up three streets and turn left," she said, 
   squirming around to rid herself of the backpack and looking
   away as they passed the car surrounded by zombies. In the
   rearview Ryan saw that two of them, who hadn't been able to
   get into the group chowing down on the unlucky driver,
   shambled away from the other car and began to follow them,
   arms out and hands grasping at thin air as the police car
   sped away. Free of the pack, Caryn slouched down in her
   seat, not caring to see any more of what the town had
   become.

      Ryan slowed as he approached the corner, swerving to 
   avoid a little kid zombie that he saw at the last minute,
   and made the turn a tad too fast, but the well-maintained
   police car let him get away with it. Tires squealing they
   flew around the corner onto a residential street lined with
   elms that stood sentenial along both sides like silent
   warriors who didn't care to get involved in this battle.

      The street was still and silent, mostly dark but for a
  few scattered porch lights and lit windows here and there.
  "Looks pretty quiet. Maybe they haven't gotten this far,"
  Ryan said without thinking, then realized that if the
  critters had gotten to her family he was giving her false
  hope.

      "No such luck. Look there." Caryn pointed as they 
  passed a small white house, its porch light burning, and in
  its glow they saw two zombies shambling up the driveway to
  disappear in the darkness on the side of the house. "Oh,
  shit, I hope they're okay! God damn it..."

      This was the first time Ryan had heard her swear and he 
  glanced over at her, surprised and realizing how upset and
  tense she was. "How much farther?"

      "Two more blocks. We're about the farthest house out of 
  town," she said, nervously staring out the passenger window.
  "That's why I had to stay in the dorm. I couldn't walk all
  that way twice a day back and forth to class."

      Cruising at about twenty-five, they passed the dark 
  silent houses, seeing no more zombies and raising Caryn's
  hopes.
  
  